

							232 Hale Road
							WIDNES
							Cheshire
							WA8 8QA
Dear All,						9/6/92


	Sorry about the prolonged silence over the past few weeks. I've been
EVER so busy, as you are all about to find out!


	First, CPUs. Most ACC subscribers will be like myself, A500 equipped
and thus blessed with the Motorola MC68000 CPU. As a CPU, it pees all over
Intel's sad little offerings (I've programmed both, and believe me, the 80x86
series on PC's is a dog's breakfast of a chip-avoid like the plague if at all
possible!) and has a really nice instruction set.


	However, some of you out there will be blessed with an Amiga 2000. If
this is the case, then you might just have bolted an accelerator card onto it
complete with one of the fully 32-bit versions nestling snugly on the card.
Well, the time has come to give you lucky accelerator card users something of
use from the ACC stable! Roll drums, trumpet fanfare, unfurl red carpet, here
comes...


			typed_68020.doc  !!!


Yes, you too can enjoy the full power of 32-bit computing courtesy of ACC, &
live life to the full with your accelerator card, thanks to the wildest DOC
file to hit any disc this side of Ursa Minor Beta! Those of you with copies
of the DOC DISCS (and remember, they are now DISCS plural!) just add this new
file to the set, alongside the 207K hardware DOC and friends.


	This all-new DOC file contains all that you ever wanted to know about
the upgraded MC68020 CPU, including FULL INSTRUCTION SET WITH OPCODES, enhan-
ced exception vector table, enhanced register set, enhanced addressing modes
including memory indirect and bit fields, stack frames used during exeception
handling and information on coprocessor usage including the MC68881 mathema-
tics coprocessor and the MC68851 Paged Memory Management Unit. Will this guy
ever stop???


	Oh, and before I get hate mail from Amiga 3000 users clamouring "How
about a 68030 DOC for us?", patience, please. I'll get round to that in due
course. In any case, if you can afford three grand for an Amiga 3000, you're
rich enough to shell out thirty quid for a 68030 manual (which is what I've
just done and I'm merely one of the paupers with an A500!)


	And before all the A500/A1000 owners begin shouting "He's left us out
in the cold!" I've thought of you too. To keep up the head-banging tradition,
I've written Fractals Part 2. Yes, you too can have fun with fractals! If you
have already exhausted the original Fractals article, and are hungering for
more, then this is for you! Welcome to the Lorenz Attractor and friends, and
the wonderful world of differential equations (handled courtesy of none other
than mathieeedoubbas.library and Co.!) You have been warned...


	And just so that newcomers to assembler (or differential equations)
don't have to do TOO much hard work, I've embedded lots of lovely source code
in the article, ready to cut out and paste Blue Peter style into your very
own programs. Oh, and if you provide the routines with a window within which
to operate, they'll even plot the curves! Aren't I SO kind?


	Right, source and articles done with, now to some news/gossip! If it
was possible to beef up the MC68040 wonderchip, how would you do it? I mean,
it already comes in 60MHz (Ye Gods! Sixty megahertz!) versions, and does all
that the 68030 and 68882 do, all on the one chip, and lives happiest with a
megabyte of 10ns static RAM as a cache (and at least 32 megs of main memory)
so just HOW would you make it even better? Can't be done?


	Welcome to the MC68060! What happened to the MC68050? Ask Motorola-
I guess they just got fed up with numbers in sequence. Anyway, they've deci-
ded to unleash this latest beastie upon an unsuspecting public (and yet again
rub Intel's nose deep in it just as they have done since the original 68000).
The beefing up involves expanding the register sizes. So when this baby makes
it onto an Amiga accelerator card, you can make PC owners squirm even more,
when you tell them that not ONLY does it do fast math, have built-in memory
management AND eighteen different addressing modes, PLUS bit field management
on an arbitrary boundary (yah-boo-sucks, 80486!) AND have probably the most
utterly gorgeous instruction set assembler programmers have ever been blessed
with, but now it handles extra-large operands in one go too!


	How large? 64 bits? Yes. But that's not all. As well as 64-bit oper-
ands, the MC68060 can handle 128-BIT operands in one go! I can hear groans
from Intel 80x86 programmers the world over when they hear this! So, as well
as MOVE.B, MOVE.W and MOVE.L, there's now MOVE.D (64 bits) and MOVE.F (128
bits) and friends! One can also expect a beefed-up SWAP (SWAP.L etc), further
beefing up of MUL and DIV to access the new operands, plus the ability to use
the new operands within the extended memory indirect addressing modes. Who
says CISC is dead? Oh, and for those who drooled over the spec sheets for the
MC68040 when it was announced (especially the prospect of 60MHz timing!), how
does the prospect of an 80MHz chip grab you???


	Right, CPU news over. What's next? Oh, yes. Thanks to the generosity
of several individuals and my own efforts, I am able to offer some goodies. I
am now able to offer among other things, a complete cross assembler for the
6502 processor (some may remember my article on DIY assembler writing). This
cross assembler has the following features:


	1) Assembly language mnemonics & addressing mode syntax
	   conforms to the standards laid down in the Sybex man-
	   ual;

	2) Full collection of directives, including ORG, EQU,
	   and OPT;

	3) Options to redirect listings and error reports, if re-
	   quired, to disc files;

	4) Option to display instruction timings if required;

	5) Conditional assembly supported using IF/ELSE/ENDIF,
	   with nested IF clauses supported;

	6) Code repetition using DO/ENDDO supported, plus nes-
	   ted DO clauses;

	7) Full include file support via INCLUDE (nestable to
	   32 levels!);

	8) Creation of either raw binary files or object files
	   with a data header for use by loader programs.


I have also created a full DOC file for the program (well, I have a reputa-
tion to maintain!) and the lot is available to anyone who wishes a copy. Drop
me a line for further information directly at the above address, and I will
tell you all about A6502 and a range of companion programs being developed in
tandem. Available now are:


	A6502 : Version 1.0 6502 cross assembler as described
		above;

	A6809 : Version 2.0 6809 cross assembler (lacks INCLUDE
		file handling but will be added to version 3.0).


Available in the future will be:


	AZ80  : Z80 cross assembler for ex-Spectrum etc., users
		who wish to wallow in nostalgia;

	A86   : Intel 80x86 cross assembler to allow DECENT PC
		software to be developed in a DECENT environ-
		ment (i.e., one that multitasks unlike PCs!);

	A340  : Texas Instruments TMS34010/TMS34020 cross assembler
		for software development using graphic signal pro-
		cessors;

	AT800 : Transputer cross assembler (when I get the instruc-
		tion set and opcodes!);

	ANS   : Cross assembler for National Semiconductor 16032
		and related processors;

	A88K  : Cross assembler for Motorola 88100 RISC processors
		(again, when I get the opcodes etc!).


So, as you can all see, I'm being kept occupied!


	I was also getting involved in the possibility of my own do-it-your-
self version of Defender (a game that I loved SO much when it appeared in the
arcades! Shows my age, when I regard Defender nostalgically...), when another
pile of mail arrived, among it ACC 24, complete with a tutorial on the sub-
ject of interleaved bitplanes and interleaved bobs my Mike Cross. Give this
man a Yorkie! There I was, about to code the damn game using normal linear
bitplanes, when along comes Mike and shows how to render 4-bitplane bobs in
one operation, courtesy of some sly screen initialisation! Well, a rewrite to
encompass the new ideas will add yet more to the development time (but let's
face it, with the 68020 DOC above and the fractal update having added 3 weeks
to the development time already, who cares about an extra day or so?) but it
will speed things up dramatically!!


	Oh, and if Mike Cross is reading this, I've got a sly screen format-
ting trick of my own to get past the problems of clipping that I'm going to
implement in this game, so when it arrives in a playable form (well, when a
player can make things move around) I'll tell all. See if you can guess just
what I'm up to!


	Next item:abuse. Come on, guys, let's call a halt! Or at least, if
someone out there HAS one or more axes to grind, let's hang fire until Mark
has had his well-earned rest and can set up a 'boxing ring' section on the
disc for all of you keyboard pugilists to slug it out! And if you please, use
Marquis of Queensberry rules! Mark has enough on his plate without having to
perform the same functions as the video playback system on "Dark Star" (any-
one see that film? wasn't it GOOD?) which kept flashing messages on screen of
the form "Expletive Deleted" and "Obscene Gesture Deleted"...fans of silly
70's sci-fi spoofs will know what I'm on about here!


	And in this vein, a little message to Raistlin. I was not aware that
references to "Raistlin's Teddy" were being used by some as an insult. Given
that I once had a "User Friendly" Garfield velcroed to my monitor (complete
with a polyester floppy disc that generated VAST amounts of static and made
lots of nice snow on the monitor screen if it was rubbed with a comb), I had
the idea that the aforementioned teddy actually existed and was some kind of
coder's mascot (compared with some of the mascots that I have seen being ad-
opted by some programmers in some software houses, teddy bears are a sign of
staid respectability!) along the lines of Nookie Bear (anyone out there re-
member Roger De Courcey and Nookie Bear? Showing my age again...). And just
in case anyone has any doubts about the kind of mental image I'm trying to
conjure up, watch the new Kentucky Fried Chicken advert featuring said Roger
De Courcey & Nookie Bear and the nuclear-powered chilli-chicken burger...if
anyone sees it, picture the bear doing exactly the same thing as it sits on
top of some poor unfortunate ACC coder's printer after listing my 207K hard-
ware DOC file has sent said printer into meltdown! So for the record, refer-
ences to Raistlin's teddy are general humour, and NOT abuse! And after this,
Raistlin, old chap, you might be tempted to get your own Nookie Bear as a
mascot to give my User Friendly Garfield a pen-pal (trip to attic to recover
rather tatty orange cat in grubby T-shirt now in order...)!


	Ok, having tried to make the dust settle yet again, let's resume nor-
mal service.


	Raistlin again! Do you REALLY have a faster polygon filler? Send it
in A.S.A.P!!! I'll dig up ArgAsm & do the timings for you & see if it REALLY
is faster! If it is, welcome to the Hall Of Fame! The serried ranks of Val-
halla await your grand entrance! (Sorry about that-yes, I'm a Wagner opera
fan!).


	Next, congratulatons to Mark Meany & Paul Kent for the Tanx Game! I'm
suitably impressed with the result! I'm eagerly awaiting the finished product
complete with the collision effects. I like the way that the other beasties
follow me around the maze...incidentally, just what WOULD you call those odd
little things? They're reminiscent of an aerial view of R2D2! For the record,
there was a TRON arcade machine with a similar game built in, featuring those
odd little tanks from the film (although NOT to the same resolution, I hasten
to add, since the originals were done an an array of three Cray XMPs linked
together, in 16 million colours on a 4096x4096 display! If there exists out
there an ACC coder with fifty million quid to spare, the system's yours...).


	Once again, thanks due to 1) Mark & Paul for the above game; 2) Mike
Cross for the interleaved bitplane DOC; 3) Timespan for ProCalc off ACC 22 or
thereabouts (I can't be bothered checking the index while I write this). I'm
finding ProCalc to be very handly as a pop-up alongside DevPack & the LibHelp
that I sent off.


	Referring to LibHelp (as I sent in), thanks to Mark also for pointing
out the problems of CLI parameter passing. I'm hoping to devise some suitable
means of achieving the same results without using absolute memory locations.
One alternative idea is this:set up a public message port, and send the CLI
parms as a message via this port to the newly-started process (after the Cre-
ateProc() call) which will have a suitable public message port of its own.
Once the message has been received and ReplyMsg() has been sent, the launcher
can then die, and the launched program can have access to CLI parms without
needing any absolute memory locations!


	Meantime, I'd also like to thank Amiga Format for CanDo (by Inova-
tronics, authors of PowerWindows) when I can find out how to get it to work!


	Anyway, enjoy the new, revised, FULL MC68020 DOC, the fractals DOC &
embedded source, and all of the rest of ACC. As always:


		Live fast, code hard & die in a beautiful way



			Dave Edwards.






