REQUIREMENTS:

 The MAGIC system currently requires Kickstart 2.04 or later to run
 effectively.  One or more MAGIC-aware applications are also required.


INSTALLATION:

 To install the MAGIC system, simply double-click the MagicServer
 icon.

 If you want to launch the MAGIC server automatically with every
 reboot, you may drag the MagicServer icon into your WBStartup
 drawer.


USEAGE:

 MAGIC is a system of sharing 24-bit image data between MAGIC-aware
 applications.

 For example, you have loaded an image into Application A for editing.
 You decide you need to do a special glitzy effect on the image, a
 task at which Application B excells.  Rather than saving the image
 to disk and then loading it into Application B, you simply run
 Application B, select it's "Open MAGIC" menu option, choose your
 image by name, and the image appears in Application B ready for
 your effect.  When you're done, you simply quit Application B and
 you may return to Application A where the image sits, glitzed and
 effected.

 Consult the documentation included with your application for specific
 details on how MAGIC is used with that application.


PROGRAMMERS:

 This directory contains information necessary to create applications
 that support the MAGIC 24-bit image sharing system.  Please read the
 background entry in the magic.autodoc for an overview of the system.


 The following files are included:

   MagicServer:
      The MAGIC server program.  Ideally, this should be placed in your
      WBStartup drawer so it is always running.

   diag:
      A simple diagnostic program; it prints out a list of all currently
      available public MAGIC images.

   mtest:
      A simple MAGIC-aware effect tool.  It does a negative effect on the
      "default" MAGIC image.

   mdemo:
      A skeleton example showing the use of MAGIC in a variety of ways.
      Run multiple copies for best effect.

   src/#?:
      Source code and makefile for the three example programs.

   include/#?
      C Include files for MAGIC implementation.

   fd/#?
      FD file for the magic.library.

   doc/#?
      Autodoc for the magic.library (including brief summary of the MAGIC
      system).

   lib/#?
      MAGIC stub library; necessary for varags stubs to functions.


 (Note that all code was compiled and tested with SAS 5.10b.)
