
      EarthSoft
      5 Dumergue Avenue
      Queenborough
      Kent
      ME11 5BJ

 Greetings all,

 As we all know, 'C' programmers have things  easy. True, they create programs
several times the size of an equivalent machine code program (and much slower,
too), but they have the advantage of one  or two high-level functions which we
don't have.

 Or should I say, DIDN'T have. Until now.

 I'm talking, of course, about printf() and  scanf() and their relatives. (Not
to mention puts(), gets() and so on).

 Now before anyone says  anything,  I  AM  aware  of  the function Printf() in
arp.library, and the function  VPrintf()  in the WB2.0 release of dos.library,
not to mention various other related  functions  scattered  throughout various
libraries. BUT  -  these  are  implemented  using  the  exec.library  function
RawDoFmt(), and therefore suffer from all  the restrictions of that function -
for instance, they can't print floats or doubles.

 So, I decided to take  the  challenge  and  write  a  FULLY FEATURED printf()
function, with scanf() and all related functions  thrown in. The result is the
latest version  of  "earth.library"  which  now  has  most of the "stdio" type
functions previously only available to C  programmers. This is quite something
when you realise that on many  C  compilers,  the  inclusion  of printf() adds
around 12K to an executable, yet  "earth.library"  is  less than 10K in total,
and has scanf() thrown in for good measure.

 To save space on the ACC disc, I have  not  included  any documentation which
has previously appeared in ACC.  In  other  words,  the  docs on this disc are
documentation for the new functions only. For docs on the other functions, see
last month's ACC (or write to me).

 Another  thing  which  is  missing  from  this  release  is  the  lack of a C
programmer's interface. I was working on  this, but ran out of time before the
deadline for sending things to ACC. The  upshot of this is that currently only
machine code programmers can use the new functions of the library. This is not
too serious, as  C  programmers  have  their  equivalents  anyway,  and  the C
interface for all of the old functions (published  last month) will still work
with the new  version  of  the  library.  Hopefully  I  shall  have the full C
interface ready for next month (if anyone's interested).

 Oh yes - please ignore (for  the  moment)  all  references  in the docs to an
EarthSoft utility called PrintFPatch. This  isn't finished yet, but it WILL be
finished in time for next month's ACC, and I shall submit it for publication.
 Anyway - do read the document file StdIO.doc,  and the docs for _PrintF(). It
has features over and above the  ANSI  standard,  including  (for example) the
ability to print a string translated to  upper or lower case. The same is true
of _ScanF().

 What else? Oh yes - I've started writing an ARexx manual. This won't be ready
for a couple of months, but when it is  I'll  let you know. (There - I've said
it in print, so I'm committed now).

 Once again, my usual plea to any modem users.  Please upload all my stuff and
distribute it far and wide. Its all free.

 Well, so long, and thanks for all the fish,

   Arcane Jill

