
                                             Stephen Gray
                                              238 East Common Lane
                                               Scunthorpe
                                                South Humberside
                                                 Dn16 1hj
    



    First Things First ..

    At almost 40 years of age and leaving school in 69 with something 
    equivalent to a CSE..  Certified Sensless Endomorph. You can bet
    picking this stuff up has been a bit of a major task.
    However.. I intend to keep grinding on regardless of the fact that my 
    Neurons are in a change of state and decay.
                     <---->    <---> or is it state of change. whoops !!!
    another one gone. Anyway ,, After years of staying in shape ..
    Physically.. You start to Biologically slow down,and to realize that
    opening a gate is easier than jumping over it is no easy thing to accept
    for a fitty! Cutting back leaves you with spare time .. so instead of
    vegetating completly I decided to fish around for something.. and got
    hooked on this machine.. its the A1500 3 Meg 1.3 version.
    With a Yamaha keyboard midi'd in .. Both a bit dated now.. 

    After months of watching demos and generally enjoying myself I purchased 
    the RSI demomaker ,,bloody brilliant,, but limited to what you can
    achieve. So .. you have to learn how to code!
    I bought the abacus C for beginners..
    No good really unless you have £220 to blow on the bloody compiler.
    I got the abacus book on machine language expecting to do all sorts.
    I even lashed out £60 on DEVPACII {excellent if you know what its for}. 
    Only to realize that all of this did'nt make much sense.
    Eventually and rapidly approaching the point of do I really want to
    do this . I saw an article in a magazine " Amiga Shopper "


    THE AMIGA CODERS CLUB. A last attempt to make the effort.
    --- ----- ------ ----
    What a totally and utterly BRILLIANT piece of work this is...
    Even a thicky like me is finding it more satisfying and more fun than
    using software to do the job ..that is apart from Devpac..
    I use the H/C method of absorbing all relevant material.
    
    Mark .. you have a definite aptitude for keeping things interesting.
    If you are not a teacher then you should be.
    Having just about completed ACC 9 ..a long way to go yet I Know,,
    I would like to take this opportunity to [thank you] for helping one 
    of the mentally under nourished among us, and I am looking forward
    to hopefully learning much more about this silicon wizardry.

    SPECIAL THANKS TO MARK MEANEY 
    OTHERS  THANKS TO STEVE MARSHALL  I now understand a bit about bootblocks.
                      DAVE EDWARDS/MIKE CROSS  For your interesting although 
    "I must admit a bit techy to me" articles 
    To save nameing everyone who has contributed to this club disk..
    I would like to thank {everyone} involved... 

                                                Steve..

    PS:  H/C  Hammer and Chisel..
