
                Announcing PCQ Pascal version 1.2d

A friend of mine recently pointed out that not only was I not
making any money from PCQ Pascal, but in fact with disks, postage,
packing material, telephone bills, documentation, etc, I was
actually spending a lot more than I was taking in.  In an effort
to shrink that gap, I am now offering a registered version of PCQ
Pascal for $25 US.  From now on, the freely distributable version
of PCQ Pascal will remain version 1.2b, although I will still fix
bugs as they appear (the version will remain at 1.2b, but the date
will be kept current).  The unregistered version will consist of:

	Pascal		Version 1.2b of the compiler
	Pascal.DOC	The documentation file
	Peep		The peephole optimizer
	Include		The 1.3 include files
	Examples	Several example programs
	Make		A simple 'make' script
	PCQ.lib		The 1.3 runtime library

For the $25 registration fee, you will receive:

	Pascal		Version 1.2d of the compiler, which now
			includes variant records, an execution
			profiler, CHIP and FAST keywords, access
			to mathtrans.library for Cos(), Sin(),
			etc., (* and *) comments, C calling
			conventions, variable numbers of
			parameters, and many other new features.
	PCQ		A very flexible 'make' utility with many
			options, including the ability to define
			multi-file 'projects'.
	Peep		The peephole optimizer
	Pascal.DOC	The main documentation file
	PCQ.doc		Documentation for the PCQ utility
	PCQ.lib.DOC	Documentation for all the routines defined
			in the Include:Utils directory, in a format
			compatible with DME's REF feature.
	Include		The 1.3 include files, plus the 2.0 include
			files when they become available.
	Examples	Several example programs
	PCQ.lib		The 1.3 runtime library, plus the 2.0
			runtime library when it becomes available.
	Source		The source code for the run-time library


For an additional $15, you will receive a printed, bound version
of Pascal.DOC and PCQ.lib.DOC.  These are not just hardcopies of
the files, however - they are completely reformatted to take
advantage of the printer.  They even have complete indexes.

Registered users will recieve updates for the price of a disk and
postage, including the 2.0 include files and runtime library as
soon as they are available (updating for AmigaDOS 2.0 is one of
several impending expenses that caused me to consider a registered
version).  If you have sent me money in the past I will be happy
to apply it to your registration fee.  You'll have to remind me
about it, however, because until now there wasn't any reason to
keep track.

For the latest registered version of PCQ Pascal, send $25 in any
form my bank can understand (which is just about anything) to:

	Patrick Quaid
        2250 Clarendon Blvd, Apt #1209
        Arlington, VA 22201
	USA
	Telephone: (703) 524-8945

If you include another $15 I'll also send you the printed
documentation.  Please remember to write your name and address
neatly on the inside of the envelope, if possible.
