
 allready done:
 
      possibly use cpp as preprocessor for quakec (do not open the source-file
    directly, instead open a pipe, into that cpp pipes (alternativly use
    tempfile instead))

 partially done:

      support for quake2 (some things have been done for this)
    
      loading/saving of models
  
      ilbm/gif/pcx/bmp-support (but, I'm not the man to programm that crap
    , some has been done, but not everything)
  
      alias-lists for texture-names: we expand an array of texturenames and its
    aliases "alias\0texturename\0texturepath", so life is easy if you change your
    texturenames on your harddrive or want to replace the standard-textures with
    your own. and it is faster than searching through all your directories all
    the time.
  
 future ideas:
  
      use zlib instead of own compression algorithm?  (already in, but only
    used for png)
  
      make-like timestamp-updating?
  
      lot of dokumentation (the whole source)
  
      support for the extensions of bsp/worldcraft/... like prefabs etc.
  
      if there are '/' in the mipmaps-name, we try to load wals instead of wads
    (minor change, based upon the dir-keyword) [so it is possible to compile
    quakeII-maps for quakeI
  
      redefine some of the unused fields in structs for fast viewers (eg.  a
    fullcolor-field in miptexs, or a group-id in wads)
  
      specify "lightcolors" in map-files for colored lights (quakeI and
    quakeII), the lightmaps for colored light are saved after the normal
    lightmaps, so we get get red-lightmap at "lightdatasize/4", green at
    "lightdatasize/4 * 2", blue at "lightdatasize/4 * 3", that way it is
    completely comatible to quake (dont forget to add lightofs)
  
      a basic idea to enhance the bsp-format:  after the bspheader we have room
    for everything we want.  the standard-header has offsets into the file, so
    quake nor any other program that READ the file, expects that eg.  the
    entity-lump lies after the header.  now we build a crc-sum, or something
    other union like a magic number.  we put that directly after the header.
     now if we look for an enhanced bsp-file we check that number and voila
    we put everything what we want into the bsp-file.
     some ideas for extensions:
     - write the texture-strings into a lump a save them, but don't load the
    textures, so we have the same capability as quakeII for quakeI, but it
    doesn't work for quakeI.exe, 'cause quakeI misses the texture-lump
     - we can save the precalculated values from qview into a special lump
     - we can save the colored light-tables into a special lump instead after
    the original lightmaps
     - ...
  
      an idea to patch a pre-processed pak-file that the bsp-files shares
    textures:  first we create a wad, that contains all the textures that are
    in the bsps (not in one, in all).  than we create the bsps without adding
    the textures and build the pak-file.  now we post-process the bsps directly
    in the pak-file (the bsps offsets to the textures exists but are -1) that
    the offsets point into the location of the texture in the wad-file in the
    pak-file.
    
 ...  (too much)

 suggestions are welcome!
