Cyclone is a new Modula-2 compiler for the Amiga. Although it can be used for
compiling standard Modula-2 programs, there is far more to Cyclone than that.
Cyclone has added many features to Modula-2, including many you will recognise
from Modula-3, Oberon, ADA, E and C++. What is more, it does this without
losing any consistency and Cyclone still feels like a Modula-2 compiler
should. The extensions to the standard Modula-2 language include objects with
polymorphism, exceptions, lists (like in E) and many more.

Cyclone also has a very good compiler. It manages to achieve a compilation
speed vastly faster than any C compiler, making program development faster
and easier than with a C compiler. Even very large projects can compile in a
matter of seconds. What is more, Cyclone does not sacrifice any code quality
in order to achieve these compilation speeds. All the optimisations you would
expect from a professional compiler are there, including function inlining,
case table generation and peephole optimisations and if all these
optimisations aren't enough it also offers one of the best inline assembler
systems ever seen in an Amiga compiler. The resultant executables are also
among the smallest produced by any compiler, due to a smart linking system
that doesn't waste any space and the excellent optimiser, and can be made
reentrent very easily.

Support for Cyclone is also impressive. As well as Cyclone equivalents for
all the standard C includes, special modules are provided for things like
thread handling (courtesy of Robert Ennals), thread streams and Object
orientated features. If the provided modules are not enough, Cyclone can
output standard blink compatible objects allowing you to link with programs
written in other languages. A library linker is also provided to allow easy
creation of Amiga Libraries and it gives very high quality results. 

However possibly the most incredible thing about Cyclone is that dispite it's
incredible features and high quality code output, it is Giftware, so even the
poorest programmer has no excuse to not switch to Cyclone. 


Marcel Timmermans
EMail: mtimmerm@worldaccess.nl
