			    EzLib README

    NOTE: READ ALL OF THIS AS THERE ARE SOME DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE
ARTICLE AND THE ACTUAL CODE (due to last minute changes in the code).

	  THE FILES ON DISK ARE THE `OFFICIAL' WORD ON EZLIB.


    Ok, this is the `frozen' version of EzLib.  All the reported anomalies
are fully fixed and the code compiles cleanly under both Lattice/SAS C
(version 5.02, somewhat out of date, but shouldn't make a difference) and
Manx/Aztec C (version 5.0d).  All the demos work properly under 1.3 and
2.0 and there shouldn't be any Enforcer or Mungwall hits (I can't check
the Enforcer part as I don't have an 020 or higher).  But you expected all
that, right? ;-)


    In previous versions of EzLib I had a function called MakeScreen().
Obviously this conflicts with the Intuition function of the same name.	It
slipped by before because I was using Manx with an out of date pre-compiled
header file that didn't include Intuition.h (partly because I was doing
this work on a 1 meg 2 floppy A500 and space is tight to say the least).
But enough excuses. The new name for MakeScreen() is CreateScreen().  I
believe the article calls it ezMakeScreen(), but seeing that I don't really
like `taglets', or whatever you want to call that `ez' at the beginning of
the name, I called it CreateScreen(). The arguments are all the same and it
works the same, only the name has changed.

    There was some confusion over the MSG(), Print(), and Circle() macros.
They really are just macros and not regular functions.	There isn't any
additional overhead in calling them compared to the normal functions (which
happen to be Write(), Text() and DrawEllipse() respectively).


    A final note about which parts of EzLib you can use in your programs.
You can choose the parts you want to use and the parts you don't want
to use.  If you don't like the window creation routines but think the
gadget stuff is nifty, you can create your own window in whatever way and
just use the gadget routines.  If you like the window/screen stuff but
think the gadget routines are bunk, use the window/screen stuff and create
your own gadgets in whatever way.  The _only_ restriction is that you can
_only_ use an EzLib Prop gadget with the EzLib Prop gadget routines.  EzLib
attaches some private information to the prop gadget and since any gadget
you create by other means won't have that info, EzLib will barf.  So just
don't do that.  Any other combination is fine.  Except for Prop gadgets,
EzLib creates standard Intuition objects.  For the most part you can
use/abuse any of the objects you get back from EzLib. Just don't code
yourself into a corner doing things that aren't kosher.  You _can_ change
the LeftEdge/TopEdge fields of any gadget (for algorithmic layout and
such).	If you aren't sure, look at the examples and original source and
see what's ok and what isn't.

    For example, you could create your own windows via whatever mechanism
you want and then use the EzLib gadget routines, the bitmap routines,
whatever. Or you can use EzLib to make the windows and screens and do your
own gadgets in whatever happens to please you.

    Just a final addition: If you create your own screen via some
other method, don't call KillScreen() on it.  The same goes for windows and
gadgets. If you create it with EzLib, you can call the EzLib Kill routines,
if you create it yourself, EzLib can't get rid of it for you.


Have fun now, and write lots of nice looking Amiga programs,
--dominic


Dominic Giampaolo
8 Balsam St.
Lewiston, ME. 04240
(207) 783-8489
nick@maxine.wpi.edu


