  Before we get started, I must tell you about how to get
the proper screen mode working.  All the examples are set
to the EGS-DEFAULT screen mode.  However, since that is 
quite boring, you can change it in two ways:
  1. workbench users-  Modify the icons tool types to 
                       MODE=name of mode.
	               e.g.  "MODE=LEGSa:SVGA 800x600"
  2. shell users need to give the mode as an argument.
     e.g. "example1 LEGSa:SVGA 800x600"
 Ok, on to the more interesting stuff.

  So far I have written a total of five examples.  The source
code is in the source directory (appropriately enough) while
the executable is in bin.  Go ahead and try them.  If you want
to know how they work, then read the source in order since
each tends to build on the previous.

  These are all self-contained, so if you recompile them
you just need to link in startup code, standard C link 
library, and Amiga.lib.


example1 -- "Layers for you and me."

  This program just creates three layers and draws different
colors in each.  The left button pulls them to the front and
drags them around the screen.  The right button just pushes
them to the back.  To exit the program just hold down the right
mouse button and press the left.

example2 -- "Keep your children in order"

  This program demonstrates how to arrange layers.  It creates
a group like those in MUI and also creates an Intuition like
window using relative placement of layers.  The layers can be
resized, moved, and depth arranged.  To quit just use the 
close gadget of either window.

example3 -- "Some layers are smarter than others"

  This program just opens two windows and demonstrates a smart
refresh layer vs. simple refresh.

example4 -- "pixels, lines, and rectangles"

  This example opens three windows and draws junk into them.  
Notice the thick and curved primitives.  Not really fast, but
that's what hardware is for.

example5 -- "Side effects can be good"

  Since groups are arranged in the order that the layers appear
in their respective lists, then they can be rearranged using
the G_PushLayer() and G_PullLayer().  Press the left and right
buttons on the five layers in the horizontal group to change
their order.  Hey, no closing the window and recreating a 
gadget list  It's as easy as depth arranging a layer!!



That's all for now.  I'll try to add more in the future.  I
will be working on a more ambitios example of a window server
that should demonstrate how to use layers in a multi-tasking
environment.  It will also give a better method for refreshing
layers that is more generic.

  Please send comments to: luke@raj2.tn.cornell.edu
or if that doesn't work, try lemming@cmpm.mst.lanl.gov

-luke
