Amiga E Encyclopedia - Persons

This file contains the persons involved in this project, the ones that joined,
are or will be contacted. There are remarks about each which include e-mail
address und possible subject they would write on.


The involved persons are:

  Gregor Goldbach (glauschwuffel@amt.comlink.de, general knowledge about
                   every major lib up to os2.04 except math; printer.device,
                   E3.1a reg:

    intuition: screens, windows, gadgets
    graphics:  borders, images, areas
    exec:      messages, lists
    dos:       in/output,
    gadtools:  minor
    [maybe porting of newiff if needed]

    E:         not very well: lisp-cells,
               not at all:    unification


Persons contacted

  mailing list

    Tomas Hecker (t_hecker@key.gun.de, intuition(, exec), s

    Dan Thies (rtfm@cyberspace.com)

'I can provide improved documentation on converting .fd and .i files to .m
files, for the addition of shared libraries to E. I could also provide quite
extensive information on OO programming in E. Other than that, I probably
would have time to deal with the Intuition section, since I have already
rewritten most of the 2.04 RKM material on that in E.  If we want to split up
intuition, I could provide information on screens, windows, and (probably)
IDCMP pretty quickly.'

    Trey Van Riper (jvanriper@uncavx.unca.edu, done)
         OO stuff


    Lionel Vintenat

         exec :             well : lists, memory, tasks, signals, message ports
                            average/a bit : the remaining
         dos :              files (examining, reading, writing, ...), locks,
                            directory and device scanning, ReadArgs, patterns
                            average/a bit : the remaining
         icon :             well : all
         utility :          well : hooks
         locale :           well : all
         iffparse :         average : reading and writing iff files
         commodities:       a bit
         file notification: a bit

         mui (I know the muimaster.library is not really part of the system,
but I can do something enough general to apply to other OO GUI systems like
Triton or BGUI, and anyway, too much things can't be a negative thing :)) :
                * well : all

         E features :
                * average : lisp cells (I know the way it works, but never
                            use them in a E program)

        "I'm of course VERY interested in such a document, so if I can join
        my knowledge to this project, let's go !"


-------


        Erskin Cherry(echerry@warren-wilson.edu)

        provides some sorting objects

-------


FROM: E:src/pd

arexxport:      Leon Woestenberg
                    (leon@stack.urc.tue.nl, done)
                "Examples are good, but it's not my idea to re-write the
                 C= Autodocs :-) [...] Yes, I'm willing to participate.
                Let me hear when you got something started."

To be honest, I hate the 'assigned' word here :) I think the best thing I
can do now, is to adapt my sources, add comments etc. so that I can start up
the Encyclopedia as soon as possible with useful/learnful stuff.

I'll scan through my sources later, and compile some kind of... well
compilation with usefull stuff.

Things that come to mind:
Creating GUI's. WB/Shell arguments parsing. Inline asm. OOP, classes etc.
Using fonts. Using BOOPSI. Utility.library

My style of writing an E doc would be using many, clearly
documented/commented examples. I've a respect for those who can write
manuals like the AutoDocs, as they're written very clearly and efficient.


those module buddies (Dan will take care of that)

others:         Barry Wills(draft guides sent)
                "Excellent idea!  And I wouldn't mind participating...I must just
                find the time. :)"

                Joerg Wach
                sorry, no time

                Fred van Dijk (FRED@utelscin.el.UTWENTE.NL)
                just volunteered to read it
