The Amiga E Encyclopedia - A Concept

The Amiga E Encyclopedia (AEE) is an attempt to give E programmers a guide to
the AmigaOS. It is formed after the Amiga C Encyclopedia which consists of
texts, diagrams and examples.

Every function and structure of the OS is documented. There is a rich set of
examples, one-liners and complex ones.

There is also documentation about E-releated stuff such as memory allocation,
LISP-cells and OO. The implemented functions are also discussed - their usage
is shown as well as some hints are given. The Beginners.guide is not replaced,
this information is for the more experienced programmer.

The modules are documented in a more verbose fashion, too. Their authors will
be asked for additional information and examples.


I ask everybody to join the AEE - the more people the better. Everybody knows
at least a bit. As the title suggests, this is a concept. Literally anything
may - and will be - changed. Send your application today:)


---

Things to be done in AEE:

 o  maybe port the NewIFF procs to E or at least work out a method to make
    them linkable

 o  one amigaguide document per library, with inter-guide links; structured
    like the rkrms [last one suggested by Dan]

 o  device usage

 o  oo-modules, here's what its suggestor says about it:

Well, the basic concept is to build several objects that are abstract enough
to be included in most everyone's work.  For example, each of the libraries
one opens up could have objects of their own that are derived from a single
'library' object, which itself would have OpenLibrary/CloseLibrary routines.
A derived class of such a library could be 'devices' which, instead of opening
or closing a library could open/close a device.

Then, further developing this, one could build a serial-port object derived
from the devices object.

All the while, a kind of 'i/o' object could be written which could handle all
the different kinds of input and output one might expect in a stream-oriented
kind of way.  One could then derive a 'serial' object from this, which would
make heavy use of the library/devices/serial object.  This same 'i/o' object
could also have a derived object of 'file', or whatever.

The big job would be to get the Amiga's environment set up as a series of
useful objects, which requires we figure out a kind of hiearchy (sic?)
associated to the Amiga environment.

- Trey


