



                                   CANDO KENO
                         by Kerry Zimmerman [71470,1340]
                                December 12, 1990

               This archive  contains  a  demonstration  deck  written with
          Inovatronics' ›1mCANDO›0m.  This deck plays  the  game  of  KENO  in  a
          manner similiar to a Las Vegas KENO machine.  

               The archive contains the following files: 

          kenodeck    The   unbound  CANDO  program  you  may  examine  and
                  modify.  

          keno.pic    An ILBM file containing the main background picture.  

          check.br    A brush that looks like a check mark.  

          ncheck.br   A brush that is a highlight square.  

          hcheck.br   A brush that is a highlighted check mark.  

          readme      This file you are reading.  

               When the program  is  started,  a  grid  of  80  numbers  is
          displayed.  You may click the mouse on any of the numbers to make
          your selections.   Up  to  10  numbers  may  be selected.  If you
          change your mind after selecting a number, just re-click  on  the
          number to deselect it.  

               Click on the  ›1mSTART  ›0mbutton  to begin a game.  You must have
          selected at least one number for the game to begin.  The  machine
          will randomly  pick 20 numbers.  The object is to correctly guess
          the numbers that the computer will pick.  

               Another game may be played by pressing ›1mSTART ›0magain.  You may
          play with the same numbers selected in the last game,  select  or
          deselect  alternate numbers with the mouse, or clear the board by
          pressing the ›1mERASE ›0mbutton.  Finally, you may stop the program  by
          clicking on the ›1mQUIT ›0mbutton.  

               I wrote the program to teach myself about CANDO. The program
          demonstrates some  interesting techniques.  For example, it shows
          how to use a string as an array.   It  also  shows  a  method  of
          giving a gadget four different states and images.  

               Lots of  things  should  be  added  to  the  deck  to make a
          completed game.  Specifically, a scoring mechanism  needs  to  be
          added, and a series of charts showing various payoffs would be an
          improvement.  








                                      -1-




