


                                   AM C SOURCES

                                       VOL1


Why AM C Sources?

Because if you are reading this docs you like C programming language
Because every programmer is always looking for source code :-)
Because froma a little source code you could raise a big project
Because in my free time i enjoy myself porting little pieces of software.
Because you are in need of this unfindable example code.
Because is good to have all sources just under your hands.

What is  AM C Sources?


AM  C  Sources  is  a  simple  collection  of  usefull  C  and C++ programs and 
algorithms easily browsable.

What AM C Sources is not.

AM C Sources is not a programming course.
The author is non responsable for any malfunction of source codes.

Bug Reports

Bug reports are welcome, but the author doesn't guarantee the correction.
In  the  next volumes,  will  be added a  bug list  and maybe the correction of
these bugs.

Copyright

This collection HAS NO COPYRIGHT excluding those programs that have an explicit
readme file.


NO WARRANTY

   There  is  no  warranty  for  this  software package.  Although  the  author
has  tried  to  prevent  errors  he  can't guarantee that the software  package
described  in  this  document  is  100%  reliable. You are therefore using this
material  at  your  own  risk.  The  author cannot be made responsible for  any
damage which is caused by using this software package.



THE SOURCE THAT ARE NOT FREEWARE WILL NOT BE PUBLISHED IN THIS COLLECTION.


HELP ME! :-)

Let  me  know  if  you find this collection interesting, if i won't receive any 
message i will stop the developement of this project.

Help me in making this collection grow up.

Surely if u are a programmer  you  have some project stored on your  hd by long 
ime. Why  dont  you  release  them  as  freeware so that other people can  take 
inspiration from them?

Don't be afraid to send me sources!

Requrements:

- All sources must be in C or C++.
- You have to make a small readme file.


ADDRESSES

Snail Mail:

       Alain Martini
       Fraz. Ronc Inferieur 15
       11027 Saint Vincent (AO)
       Italia

E-Mail:

       amrtn@freenet.hut.fi

Fidonet:
       2:334/21.36

Amiganet:
       39:101/402.36

Web Page:
       http://www.geocities.com/SiliconValley/7240


