Short:    In progress version of a Beast-like game
Uploader: morb@nef.surle.net (Antoine Chavasse)
Author:   CdBS Software
Type:     dev/src
Version:  0.5 (12.07.98)
Requires: AGA, OS3.0+
Replaces: dev/src/CdBS_KQSrc*

Kaliosis Quantrum pre pre (pre) beta release 0.5


1. BLABLA

               We, at CdBS Software, decided to spread all of our projects,
        including  sources, as is. They are entirely WYW-Ware (Whatever You
        Want-Ware). So you can use them in any way, including helping us to
        complete  them.  But we would like to be informed of everything you
        could possibly do using some part(s) or the whole of these sources.

        This  archive  contains  the  whole  current  version  of  Kaliosis
        Quantrum.  We  will  update  it as often as possible. Please e-mail
        your  bugs  reports,   ideas,   etc.   at   morb@nef.surle.net   or
        toxn@toxiczone.surle.net.

        Kaliosis  Quantrum  doesn't  intend  to  simply  copy Shadow of the
        Beast, neither is it a fourth episod of it. The story  takes  place
        in  the  universe  of  Living Star, created by Sylve, not described
        here. We intend to prove with this game that we can push  the  Miga
        beyond  its  limits  whithout the use of a revolutionnary 3D engine
        based on the latest c2ps found on aminet. (If you want to do  that,
        please  go and check our c2p used in WCPatch, which can be found in
        game/patch).


2. NEW THIS RELEASE (0.5)
        o Implementation of an integrated editor object class and of a
          console class (you can see the editor by clicking GUI Test)
        o That's all but the editor was a pain to write, and over all to
          debug... There's still small problems with it, but it is ok for
          now (it will let me start the writing of the rpl interpeter)

        This is still preliminary work needed to implement  the  RPL
        programming language that will be used to program the monsters,
        puzzles etc.


5. NO, 3. PLANS

        Here are some features we think to implement for the  developpement
        tool and the COUIN engine :

         o Precompiled RPL programming language with complete OO support
         o RPL shell (much like HP48 calculators environement)
         o The ability to use assembly written object classes as well as RPL
           classes transparently
         o The ability to program and customize the developpement tools with
           the RPL


4. WHEN IT WILL BE COMPLETE, IT WILL BE NICE

        What Kaliosis Quantrum will feature when completed :

         o 3 overlapping layers of parallax scrolling (which are already
           here)
         o Texture mapped floor
         o Many colors on screen (I'll count them one day)
         o Nice anims between the various planets
         o Three different heros with different features and start locations
         o Various characters to meet and talk with
         o Various puzzles to solve
         o A complex scenario involving reflection as well as action
         o Etc.


5. ON MY AMIGA, IT WORKS

        Here is my config :
        A1200/Blizzard PPC 603e/166 040/25 16 meg fast ram

        The current version doesn't works on 060... It seems to be the
        result of an internal change. I'll put an updated version on
        aminet as soon as it is corrected.


6. WHO DIDN'T WHAT

        Project manager : Toxico Nimbus
        Scenario & Design : Sylve, Tox'N, Troll & MORB
        COUIN engine Code & Design : MORB
        Graphics : Sylve & Tox'N
        Musics : TiDeAF & Rafo

        For the greetings, please check the About requester in
        KaliosisQuantrum...


7. THREE PLUS THREE PLUS ONE


8. NO TOPIC


9. AN EMPTY NOTHING


10. AS FOR 7, BUT PLUS 3


11. DIE JESUS DOMINE, DONAE IS REQUIEM <BLAM>
