    You can subscribe or unsubscribe to the bguim by sending
email to ->  bguim-request@aobh.xs4all.nl. <-.

The commands understood by the ListSERV program are:

    HELP
          Lists this file. This is also  sent  whenever  a  message  to
          ListSERV is received from which no  valid  command  could  be
          parsed.

    ADD [address] listname
    DELETE [address] listname
          Adds or deletes  the  given  address  to  or  from  the  list
          specified. Mail is sent to the address given to  confirm  the
          add or delete operation.   If  you  omit  the  'address'  the
          command will assume the mailbox that is in the From: line  of
          the message. Note  that  SUBSCRIBE  is  a  synonym  for  ADD;
          UNSUBSCRIBE for DELETE.

    DELETE-ALL [address]
    UNSUBSCRIBE-ALL [address]
          Unsubscribes given address from all mailing  lists.  Mail  is
          sent the address given to confirm the deletions. If you  omit
          the 'address' the command will assume the mailbox that is  in
          the From: line of the message.

    A command must be the first word on each  line  in  the  message.  Lines
which do not start with a command word result in this file to be  sent.   If
no commands were found in the entire message,  that  message  is  completely
ignored. A single message may contain multiple commands; some  commands  may
result in a separate reply (namely FAQ, HELP) while others will  just  write
something to the logfile. You will always receive a response to any  command
found in the mail.

One short example:

     To: Testlist-request@aobh.xs4all.nl
     Subject:

     ADD myaddress@mysite
     FAQ

will add myaddress@mysite to  the  "Testlist"  and  send  the  FAQ  back  in
return.

    Please note that  it  IS  possible  to  add  or  delete  someone  else's
subscription  to  a  mailing  list.  This  facility  is  provided  so   that
subscribers may alter their  own  subscriptions  from  a  new  or  different
computer account. There is  therefore  some  potential  for  abuse;  I  have
chosen to limit this by mailing a confirmation notification of any  addition
or deletion to the address added or deleted including a copy of the  message
which requested the operation. At least you can find out who's doing  it  to
you.

Examples:

     add niftylist
     delete joe@uunet.uu.net junkylist
     help eggbeaters

    Note that you mail submissions to a mailing list by addressing  mail  to
the list's name at this site (e.g., niftylist@aobh.xs4all.nl).  If  you have
any questions or need assistance, you can send email to
postmaster@aobh.xs4all.nl for a human answer.

Yours sincerely,
  Michiel Willems
