MPE  (Modula-2  Programming Environment)

Total package.

 MPE             The main prgram.
 MPE.DOC         Documentation of mpe.
 MPECDEL         This program deletes all mpe configuration files
 MPEConvert      Convert all mpe configuration files to the latest version
 MPEConvert.Doc  Documentation of MPeConvert
 Author          A little introduction of mpe
 Assign_m2       A script to assigning m2: to ram: so that you can run mpe.
 InstallMpe      Copies mpe|mpe.doc|mpeconvert to m2:
 Start_Mpe       A script to start mpe from Workbench (specialy for KS1.3)
 ReadMeFirst     This file.


Get started.

- If you don't have the "Amiga Modula-2 System" the program MPE has no use
  for you. If you have, well great, you can use MPE.

* Installing
  
  It's easy to install, just click at the InstallMPE button and
  MPE shall be copied to the m2:  directory.  Also you need the 
  arp.library (V39) If you have Kickstart 2.0 you can use MPE from
  workbench.  For kickstart 1.2/1.3 users you can use IconX.  Offcource you
  can start MPE from the command line interface under all kickstart
  versions.

  PLEASE Read the manual for detailed information, so that i don't have
  to tell: this is no bug but a future!!

** NEW
  Also available MPEConvert, this will update all the "mpe.cfg" files
  and "s:mpe.opt". (Read the mpe.doc for more information)

  If you don't have the "Amiga Modula-2 System" and you want to see the
  program, yust run assign_m2 (this script assigns m2:  to ram:)
  after that you can start MPE.


If you found any bug's, please report to me at the following
address:

                                            Marcel Timmermans
                                            Aagje DekenStraat 22
                                            6836 RM, Arnhem
                                            Holland / Europe.

I'm now available by E-mail.
                                            Fido: 2:284/122.269

DON'T FORGET !!

* If you use MPE, please let me now, by a postcard, a letter or anything else
 >> No exploding cars or phone calls in the middle of the night. <<

NOTE:
* By the way i want to write a simple compiler (for learning) does anyone
  have souce codes from a simple compiler (specialy the code generator).  
  I have allready a working parser. But as i descripe above i want to know
  how to make from the source file (for example modula-2) an object file
  Must i generate first an assembly file and then make an object file or ...
  Do you have good books or source code examples or better a simple working
  compiler please write me a letter or better send me a disk.  I send you
  one back.
