

1) Library objects and some sources
-----------------------------------

Majority  of  the  library('libqdev.a') objects  are covered  by the  BSIPM
license, but  there are some exceptions  to the rule. The following objects
and their recipies(source code) are not covered by the former:

   ChunkyToPlanarAsm.#?
   PlanarToChunkyAsm.#?

   L_#?Base.#?

   a-crt_xxxargv.#?
   a-crt_xxxinstance.#?
   a-crt_xxxmethod.#?
   a-ctl_haltidcmp.#?
   a-nfo_fssmvalid.#?
   a-nfo_m68kcputype.#?
   i-mem_csumchs32.#?
   i-mem_csumeor32.#?
   i-mem_csumint32.#?
   i-mem_fnv128hash.#?
   i-mem_fnv64hash.#?
   i-mem_pjw64hash.#?
   i-txt_fnv128hash.#?
   i-txt_fnv128ihash.#?
   i-txt_fnv64hash.#?
   i-txt_fnv64ihash.#?
   i-txt_pjw64hash.#?
   i-txt_pjw64ihash.#?
   i-txt_quickhash.#?
   i-txt_quickihash.#?
   p-mem_lzwcompress.#?
   p-mem_lzwdecompress.#?
   p-mem_lzwfree.#?
   p-txt_debugprintf.#?
   qcrt0.#?


2) Library headers
-----------------------------------

Majority of the library headers are covered by the  BSIPM  license, but for
the sake  of usability and/or due to legal reasons  these do not fall under
the terms of the former:

   a-pre_xxxlibs.h
   a-pre_xxxseg.h
   a-sup_c2p2c.h
   i-txt_fnv128hash.h
   i-txt_fnv64hash.h
   i-txt_pjw64hash.h
   i-txt_quickhash.h
   p-mem_lzwxxx.h
   qalias.h
   qclone.h
   qcrt0.h
   qdev.h
   qhotvec.h
   qlbs.h
   qport.h
   qsupp.h
   qversion.h


3) Library documentation
-----------------------------------

Library documentation  is an integral part  of the  package but it does not
fall under  the terms of BSIPM.  The documentation  is copyrighted like any
other  papers. For  the sake of consistency  please do not publish the docs
standalone, or if you must then  version them according to library release!
Converting to other non-plaintext formats is allowed though.


4) Library example files
-----------------------------------

Contents of  'examples' directory is plain educational material thus can be
freely  published  by anyone who  is willing to supply new programmers with
coding shortcuts. Material gathered is not in Public Domain temporarily!


5) Logo files and their origins
-----------------------------------

All  contents of  #?.lo(c|g)o  files are courtesy their respective creators
and/or  owners. They generally  do not fall  under the terms of  BSIPM  nor
LICENSE,  but are copyrighted anyway  by default  unless  stated otherwise.
The file format is considered free-for-non-commercial-use.


6) Hash functions as #?.hl modules
-----------------------------------

All hash functions that come with 'hashlab' are covered by the  GNU General
Public License.


7) Package tools in binary form
-----------------------------------

All  programs that can be found in  'tools'  directory do not require BSIPM
license along them to be redistributed. They either fall under the terms of
LICENSE  or the  default  copyright  protection scheme. The  author  hereby
grants the right to the  Amiga  community and real Amiga related non-profit
organisations  to redistribute  the software  free of charge. If there is a
need you can even disassemble them and modify(while documenting the changes
and including them in the new archive).


8) Frequently Asked Questions
-----------------------------------

Below is some junk that we did not want to put into manual but we felt that
some may find this useful so here it is.

Q: What the hell is this  BSIPM  thing and should I be afraid of infringing
   it or something?

A: BSIPM  stands  for  BLACK SALLY IMITABLE PACKAGE MARK  and means that as
   long as you are an individual  User or individual  Coder you are free to
   decompile, study, borrow on ideas, use, share and enjoy the package with
   no problems.


Q: Are there any funny aspects behind  BSIPM,  cus this  license is sort of
   funny?

A: Yes, initially  these  were proposed by  Tony  to signify that  hobbysts
   can just ignore the contents: BLACK SALLY INSANE PROPAGANDA MARK,  BLACK
   SALLY INTELLECTUAL PARANOIA MARK  or BLACK SALLY  IMMATERIAL  PUKE MARK.


Q: I do not understand  BSIPM at all can you explain it like you would talk
   to a person that was born yesterday?

A: OK here is the deal. The package  and its incarnations are copyright BCD
   no matter  who did compile or remake it except the material that was not
   created  by the group. But still  everything enclosed  in the archive is
   copyrighted and the  BCD  is to decide what to do with it. Next thing is
   the lack of any warranty. There is no warrany on anything. Now given you
   consider yourself a User you have got some basic rights. You can do with
   the  package pretty much  anything, but you are not  allowed to sell it.
   As a  Coder you have the  additional rights that allow you  to sell your
   progs who reference the package  but do not link against it directly. As
   a  non-profit organisation you have  User rights and you are free to use
   the software to  earn you money indirectly through services for instance
   as long as you decide what to do in your firm! Remeber that you must not
   sell the software that links against the package except GNU stuff. Being
   for-profit organisation (a company/corporation/etc)  you have no rights,
   thus  stay away  from this  package or  Black Sally  will  turn you into
   heavyhearted-stabilizer-with-the-bitterly-Flemish-speaking-hemoglobin.


Q: Who is Black Sally and what does she have to do with the license itself?
   Is she pretty by the way?

A: Black Sally  is a witch who can put a spell on you if you misbehave. Try
   to find Human Instinct - Stoned Guitar (1971) album and judge yourself.


Q: Why not  GNU  General Public License  and where is  the source  code por
   favor?

A: Exactly, these  two things are related. We  cannot release  this project
   under the terms of  GNU GPL  in whole because we do not offer the source
   code.


Q: So what happened to the source code,  did you eat it by mistake or what?

A: We do not like software companies, including the  Amiga related ones. We
   just do not want them to integrate  our  software in their products that
   would in turn act against users.


Q: Will  the source code  be ever released, I need to look it up cus  I'm a
   curious person?

A: Funnily we did make an injoke  assumption that it all depends on current
   AmigaOS 3.x source code holders.  If they are to release the code, so we
   will. For now you can disassemble stuff since you are curious ;-) .


Q: Don't you think that the classic Amiga is dead and your effort is just a
   far cry?

A: It does not matter if it is dead or not,  because we are hobbysts and we
   do what we want to. But if that is your opinion then why is the  AOS 3.x
   source not available then?


Q: Why was  'qdev'  brought to life and what can I do with it on my  Amiga?

A: This project is a result of another project  that was found unexpandable
   due to immodular design.  This library tries to resolve this problem. As
   to what can one do with the library just look at API and tools that come
   with the archive. If you have enough inclination you can get the GG-Lite
   compiler package and start coding using 'qdev'.


Q: What are your goals in general in relation to this project, can i expect
   a major surprise?

A: The primary goal is to create simple,  verbose,  user friendly OS loader
   that will  be able to deal with dependencies and software conflicts in a
   smart way. The other goal  is to have outstanding toolbox with a tool on
   every occasion - work in progress.


Q: How about  AROS and its community, they would benefit from having such a
   library in their collection?

A: Yes, possibly and they will be given a x86 port some day if that is what
   they  want. You can create  some kind of petition  get decent  amount of
   requests and we will see what can be done.


Q: Are  MOS or  AmigaOS 4.x ports planned at all, cross compilers exist so?

A: We are afraid that these may only be available in case source code is to
   be  released and there will be people willing to port it. We do not have
   the hardware! As to cross-builds, this would be huge pain in the ass cus
   there would be no way to test the components.
