SAS/C "Magic" Icons
-------------------

Contained in this archive you will find MagicWB-style icons designed as a replacement for the rather
bland, low-resolution icons provided with SAS/C(++)6.00-6.50. It is my hope that I have filled a
"need" in the Amiga community. Inspiration for these icons provided by Osma "Tau" Ahvenlampi.

LEGAL STUFF
MagicWB original icons and backdrops copyright by Martin Huttenloher. I would suggest that you refer
to the MagicWB documentation for the software license agreement.

All icons here (except for the README icon, which is © Martin Huttenloher) are copyright ©1994 by me,
Joel R. Stanley. All rights are reserved. Original icon ideas were provided by the really cool guys at
SAS Institute.

You may use these icons as a part of your Workbench environment. These icons shall *NOT* be used in
any way, shape, or form, on another platform. They are expressedley Amiga specific! :)

Feel free to copy and distribute these icons anywhere you wish, and on whatever meduium (disk, BBSes,
Internet, etc) you feel is necessary. However, no monetary gain, other than possible duplicating
costs, will be provided by these icons. Thank you.

FILES IN THIS ARCHIVE
Build.info - replacement for the SAS/C Build icon.
Find.info - replacement for the SAS/C Find icon.
Edit.info - replacement for the SAS/C Edit icon.
Debug.info - replacement for the SAS/C Debug icon.
SCOptions.info - replacement forthe SAS/C SCOptions icon.

SHAREWARE NOTICE
If for some reason you are compelled to send me some money, it would be greatly appreciated! :-)
My snailmail address can be found later on in this document.

ENJOY!
All legal stuff aside, please enjoy these icons, and let me know if you have any ideas for
improvement. I can be reached at any of the following:
	o (Internet) joels@agora.rain.com
	o (Internet) joels@drizzle.rain.com
	o (IRC) Bitstream on channel #amiga
	o (snailmail) Joel Stanley
		      1528 NE 86th
		      Portland, OR, USA
		      		97220-5612

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Thanks to Martin Huttenloher for creating the MagicWB environment. Thanks to SAS Institute for
creating such a wonderful development system! (SAS/C++ 6.50). Thanks also to Tau, Hezu, and all of my
other friends from channel #amiga on the IRC.

- Joel Stanley -
