
 	 	         B-Prolog (Version 2.0 #2)

B-Prolog is a fast, portable, and quite robust Prolog implementation. It
consists of an emulator of the ATOAM (yet Another matching Tree
Oriented Abstract Machine) written in C, a compiler written in
canonical-form Prolog, and  a library of built-in predicates. B-Prolog
is available by anonymous ftp from 

  ftp.kyutech.ac.jp(131.206.1.101):pub/Language/prolog.

and also

  ftp.u-aizu.ac.jp:ftp/pub/lang/prolog/B-prolog.
  ftp.uni-trier.de

The following files are available:

   bp2.0.2_unix.tar.gz
         C sources and machine independent binaries for Unix machines. 
   bp2.0.2_msdos.exe
         Executable binaries for IBM compatible MSDOS machines.
   paper.ps.gz
         Paper describing ATOAM architecture and performance evaluation

We have confirmed that the system works on SPARC runing SunOS and
Solaris, HP runing HP-UX, and 486 runing Linux and MSDOS (Windows). 

B-Prolog is comparable in performance with the fastest
WAM-emulator-based systems. The ATOAM  retains many good features of  
the WAM, but differs from it in (1) predicate arguments are passed
directly in stack frames; (2) only one frame is used for each
predicate; and (3) predicates are translated into trees, called
matching trees, if possible, and clauses are indexed on all input
arguments. 

Besides Edinburgh-style clauses, B-Prolog also accepts canonical-form 
programs. In canonical-form Prolog, each predicate consists of a
sequence of matching clauses in which input and output unifications 
are separated, and determinism is denoted explicitly. The compiler is
able to translate predicates in this form into matching trees and
index them using all input arguments. The compiler can compile
programs quickly because it is mostly written in canonical-form
Prolog.  

B-Prolog is a complete implementation. Besides the compiler, it
also has an interpreter written mostly in canonical-form Prolog. It
provides an interactive interface through which the user can
consult, list, compile, load, debug and run programs. In addition, it 
provides an interface through which C functions can be called  from
Prolog. With this interface, the user can integrate other software
such as X Windows, sockets, and DBMSs, etc.  into the system.

B-Prolog is compatible to ISO standard for Prolog, but also provides
several new facilities. It provides a special data structure called
state tables that can be used to represent graphs, simple and complex 
domains in constraint  satisfaction problems, and situations in
various combinatorial search problems. It also includes a
finite-domain constraint solver with which constraint satisfaction 
problems can be specified declaratively but solved efficiently.

Some functionalities including big integers, delay, module system, and
garbage collection are not supported now and are to be implemented in
the future. 

Since the software was released in March 1994, it has been greatly
improved  in performance, functionaliy, robustness, and portability. We
would like take this opportunity to thank all the people who have
sent us feedbacks. Please address comments, suggestions, and bug
reports to:  

                     Neng-Fa Zhou
   Faculty of Computer Science and Systems Engineering 
               Kyushu Institute of Technology 
             680-4 Kawazu, Iizuka, Fukuoka, Japan
             Tel. 0948-29-7774   Fax. 0948-29-7760                    
                   zhou@mse.kyutech.ac.jp

See INSTALL for install instructions.

