
			Amiga OPS5c (V1.071a)

	The OPS5c system was originally written as part of my master's thesis
requirements at the University of Texas at Austin.  While the OPS5c system
may eventually become a commercial product, it is not of commercial grade in
its current form.  I feel that it can be useful as is, provided one does
not attempt to create large rule systems with it.  While the OPS5 language does
not provide all the bells and whistles of some expert system tools, it is
quite functional.  The TREAT pattern matching algorithm used in this imple-
mentation is state of the art and will usually outperform any currently
available algorithms on similar hardware.  The ability to execute arbitrary
C code gives the system expandability and additional power, a feature sorely
lacking in many current expert system shells.
	See the file COPYRIGHT for the terms of this distribution.  This is my
small attempt to contribute to the Amiga software community in return for some
of the excellent freely-distributable software that I have received in the
past.  While I can not accept contributions of money, if you like this program
a short email message of thanks would be nice.  I also would like to
know if you find interesting or unusual applications for it.  While it is
highly unlikely that I will be able to support the Amiga version (this may be
its only release), I would appreciate bug reports.
	At the suggestion of some I had originally attempted to add ARexx
capability to the system.  Unfortunately this proved to be more work than I
had time for, given the original design of the system.  I believe that some
ARexx functionality may be provided by an external function linked with the
OPS5c system.  Such a function could be called by:
	(call arexx <macro name> <parameters>)
If someone feels ambitious and desires ARexx compatibility in addition to
C function linkage, this would be an excellent enhancement.  If someone
attempts this, please post it and or send me a copy.  I'd try but I'm off to
other projects.

Enjoy.

Bernie Lofaso

E-mail: lofaso@titan.tsd.arlut.utexas.edu
