READ THE Changes FILE IF YOU ARE USING ASpecT BEFORE!


You have now successfully unpacked the ASpecT compiler and I must
say some more words on the usage. First you have to do some work to install
the system (for this text I suppose you are installing it on a SUN SPARC).

step 1:

Patch your .cshrc in a way that it contains the setting of ASPECT

 setenv ASPECT .:~/ASpecT/bin:~/ASpecT:~/ASpecT/Standard

This sets the search path for the ASpecT system where the files are looked
for (similar to path). If you do not set ASPECT the system would only
search in the current directory. ~/ASpecT/bin is included in the search path
because the system uses this search path too to look for the system description
file (ref. step 2).
Add something like

  set path=($home/ASpecT/bin $path)

in .cshrc such that your UNIX shell is able to find the executables of the
ASpecT system (which are asp, sc and gen).

step 2:

You have to generate a system description file - patch defaults.cmd in the
bin directory. If you want to use the normal SUN C compiler things are easy -
you only have to change the four places where a explicit path (for access of
the sources of the runtime system) is included to the ones which are used on
your platform.
Otherwise decide on the C compiler you will use with the system and write a
short hello-world-program. Compile that one with your favourite C compiler
in verbose mode. You have to modify only those items which are dealing with
the C compiler ("Compiling") and the linker ("Linking"). Everything else
should be untouched for now. The string after "Compiling" is a kind of
mask how to call the C compiler. A %f is replaced for the actual filename
by the system. Generate a C compiler call (using %f) which compiles a given
file (including the runtime-h-files) which does no linking. The difference
between the main-item and the com-item is the -DMAIN setting. The top program
(that one with the goal:: system->system function) has to be compiled with
#define MAIN (hope you got what I say). 
The same procedure goes with the Linking item. Watch the verbose output of
your compiler call and search for the linker call. The second string after
"Linking" is a kind of mask how to link on your system. A %f is replaced
with the actual file name (result) and %l stands for the list of the modules.
The runtime objects and some standards libs must be included too.
The only thing you may change now is the postfix of the object files. In the
system description file I sent they are fixed to ".4.o" suittable for a 
SPARC station - its just a problem of organisation.

step 3:

Install the man-pages (you find them in the man-directory) as it is done
normally on you system

step 4:

make the runtime system (you have to look at the Makefile and patch the
pathes).



That's it! I suppose the system should be ready to use now.

Maybe you should read the man pages and the quickstarter first - and watch
the examples. Maybe you have any questions ... just ask ... we'll hurry to
complete the extended documentation!

P.S.: Maybe you should have a quick look at BugsAndToDos and Changes to
prevent youself from surprises. Eventually YOUR compiler is not as
uptodate as it might be (thats a question of updating all the machines ... we
are developing on SUNs)
