======================THE SON OF EXAMPLES1==========================

 This disc contains mostly assembly and C code examples written by Jim Fiore
and Jeff Glatt (Jim wrote the C stuff, I wrote the assembly). It also contains
assembly language versions of some C examples from Commodore or Fred Fish
discs as well.

Speechtoy: The classic Commodore C example of using gadgets, converted to
           assembly language and optimized. Asm conversion by Jeff Glatt.

AudioDev: An executable only. This program replaces the official audio device
          (loaded from KickStart) with an optimized, assembly version. The
          official version (33.4) on KickStart 1.2 has several bugs, and is
          written mostly in C. The document, Audio.DOC, explains about the
          program, and the program itself, NewAudio, needs to be executed
          (once only) after you boot. Asm by Jeff Glatt.

Task: This is an assembly version of a Commodore C example to create a
      subtask using the amiga.lib function, CreateTask. Conversion JG

FileIO: R.J. Mical, the C programmer who wrote much of the Amiga's intuition,
        wrote a file requester which was distributed on Fish Disc 107. There
        were some other modules as well. They all comprised something called
        ProSuite volume 1. Jim and I thought that the functionality of the
        requester was exactly what we were looking for (with a few minor
        changes), but the C code was much too big and slow. Jim made some
        modifications to the C code (mostly imagery) and I converted it to
        assembly, and turned it into a disk-based library that could be
        opened and called by many tasks (the original needed to be linked
        with each separate task). The code itself went from a whopping 15K+
        to 10K. Furthermore, many customized options/functions were added
        as well as enhanced error handling.
        Now, there need only be one copy of the requester code in memory
        instead of 15K per task. I have modified the original documentation
        to reflect the new changes, created assembly and BASIC examples
        to demo using the library, and modified the original C example to
        use this library. The original C code is copyright by R.J. but this
        assembly version is a significant rewriting of the original such that
        the addressing modes, use of registers, some data structures, calling
        conventions, display routines, are all different even though the
        functionality is the same. I suggest that you send R.J. the shareware
        donation even if you intend to use this library instead of the
        original C source in a commercial application.

CopyLib: This program uses the FileIO requester library. It looks for any
         files ending in ".library" extention (i.e. it looks for library
         files only). If you find and select a library file, it will be
         copied to your boot disk's libs drawer. This provides an easy way
         for WorkBench users to copy custom libraries to their boot disk
         before running an application which uses that library. Of course,
         the requester library (which this program requires) is itself a
         custom library and must be placed in the libs drawer. Not to worry
         though, this program copies the FileIO library to your boot disk
         if it is not already there. (If you want to copy this program to
         another disk, copy the requester.library file as well).
         The only problem that a user might have is not enough room on the
         boot disk for the custom library. If this is the case, then the
         user (you, stupid) must delete any files on the boot disk that he
         deems unnecessary (like the s dir for example. Just kidding!).
         Asm lib by Jeff Glatt.

TypeAndTell: This is an example of installing a custom input handler ahead
        of Intuition originally appearing on Fish Disc #73. Input Handlers
        like this can be useful for sending your own "manufactured" keyboard,
        mouse/joy port, menu, etc, events to other applications. Your input
        handler simply makes up the event and passes it on to Intuition, who
        thinks that it is real, and thus sends it to any application waiting
        to receive such an event. This is the main idea behind the "hot keys"
        programs, the "click on the window to make it frontmost" programs,
        and the "record/playback keystrokes" programs. Conversely, you could
        "look for" certain events before Intuition sees them, and filter them
        out. (Perhaps you don't want any programs to ever see the menu button
        being pushed down.) This particular application looks for any rawkey
        (key stroke) events, and speaks out each letter as you type it. I
        suspect that it was written for a blind person. After running the
        program, every time that you press a key, it is spoken. Try running
        the program and then using a word processor (notepad maybe) to see
        the effect. This assembly version is by Jeff Glatt.
        It could be made significantly faster by eliminating
        the use of the translator library (hand translate the letters and
        phrases before assembly). I left it this way because I may use it
        to analyze and speak entire words that the user types in.

YACHTC3: This is an assembly language version of the C code game by Sheldon
   Leeman on Fish Disc #158. This version is significantly smaller, but it
   doesn't have the sound options either. Someday I'll hook it up to my
   custom music.library which can play back musical scores with loaded
   samples (plus MIDI), but for now....

SAMP: This is an IFF format for storing musical samples without all the in-
   herent limitations of 8SVX. It was devised by dissidents software. It is
   meant to be used in some of our forth-coming musical products. Also,
   included is a utility to convert 8SVX files to SAMP format. This format
   is not backward compatible, and so an 8SVX application cannot use a SAMP
   file.

8SVX: This ascii file is a disassembly of an actual 8SVX sampled data file
      intended to illustrate the exact form of an 8SVX file. If you were to
      include this file in the data section of a program, and write it to
      disc, you would be writing an 8SVX file.

StartUps and Libraries: These contain my own custom StartUp code and
   libraries to be used when linking the assembly examples. Many of the
   examples take advantage of the Innovatronic's CAPE assembler PC-relative
   directive. You should make modifications as described in the source if
   using another assembler, or better yet, buy the CAPE assembler.

	[Ed note:  I deleted obviously proprietary files such as amiga.lib,
	which compared identical to the same file of that name included
	with the Lattice 5.0 C compiler.  I also deleted all the object
	files because I could not clearly determine which ones came from
	the included source, and which ones did not.  Sorry for any
	inconvenience.   -Fred]

TopTenLists: A quick sample of dissidents humor, a morsel, an inkling, a
   small, readily-accessible excerpt of the depraved musings of some
   seriously disturbed individuals.

