


                               C2Local
                               ======

                               V 1.0

                       © Matthias Meixner in 1994-95



                          License/Disclaimer
                          ------------------

      C2Local, CComp, CTMerge, StrMerge (C) Copyright 1994-95 by
      Matthias Meixner.  All rights reserved.

   This  program  is  GIFTWARE. This means that if you use the program you
   are morally obligated to reward the author with a gift that, you think,
   matches  his  efforts. If you cannot think of a gift, a small financial
   donation will always be gladly accepted.

   I  have  decided to release this package as giftware for people writing
   freely  distributable  software. With "freely distributable software" I
   mean  non-crippeled,  free  of charge software. Authors who wish to use
   this program in  shareware and/or commercial programs must pay for the
   usage of this program before actually using it.

      ShareWare and/or commercial usage is not allowed without:

         1) Prior written permission from the author.
         2) A small finacial donation of US$ 15,-, DM 20,-
         3) A free and registered copy of the product.

   The idea behind this distribution policy is simple. You make money with
   the aid of my program? I want to get my (very humble) share.

   This  software  is  not crippeled so when you register it, you will not
   recieve  a  key-file or an updated version. Registering simply buys you
   the  right  to  use  this  software  for  creation  of shareware and/or
   commercial applications.

   Resonable, eh?


   This  program  may  be freely distributed, as long as it is kept in its
   original,  complete, and unmodified form.  It may not be distributed in
   a  commercial  package  of any kind without my written permission. This
   also covers the distribution on cover disks, disk magazines etc.

   Fred Fish may include this program in his AmigaLibDisk series.
   It may be included on the Aminet CD-ROM


       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
       but  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.




                          Contact address
                          ---------------

 Send bug-reports, suggestions, parcels, money or ??? to

      meixner@rbg.informatik.th-darmstadt.de

 or

      Matthias Meixner
      Sandberg 13
      36145 Schwarzbach
      Germany



