
  This file contains suggestions/bugs that I am working on  but  have not
  made it in this release yet. Please read this file  _before_  you start
  sending me bug reports and suggestions. Thanks in advance.....

  BUG   = A bug that's still in there.
  SUG   = A suggestions which still needs to be implemented.
  ADD   = An addition that must be made.
  ASU   = SUG+ADD
  REV   = Revision work
  LFS   = Looking for someone to.....
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  BUG   When running on the default public  screen  or WBench  screen GTB
        switches back to using it's own screen after a  load failure  and
        after selecting new.

  REV   Making the operation with bevelled  boxes  work the  same  object
        oriented way as with the gadgets. Maybe texts too.

  REV   Adding version and revision numbers  to the GUI  files  saved  by
        GadToolsBox.

  REV   Adding  a  STRING  gadget  for  each  object  that custom  source
        generators can use when desired.

  BUG   Although the palette editor will display more than 32  colors  on
        AGA machines with a screen that uses more than 32 colors  only 32
        are actually saved and used. This will change.

  BUG?  When run under 3.0 the ListViews in the CYCLE, MX,  LISTVIEW  and
        Menu   editors  are  smaller   than   usual.   This  is  a  small
        incompatibilty in KickStart 3.0. Note that this only happens when
        a ListView gadget is joined with a String gadget.

  BUG?  When run under 3.0  systems the  display  area  of  the  ListView
        gadgets seem to be cleared  with  pen 0  instead  of  the  normal
        BACKGROUNDPEN from the DriPen array. Note that this  is  only the
        case in the areas that do not display an entry.

  BUG   The coordinates when sizing gadgets can screw up.  Also when they
        are displayed on a GZZ window they screw up.

  BUG   The font adaptable source has to  change.   It  does  not  always
        succeed with proportional fonts.  Maybe  something  for  a custom
        source generator writer.

  SUG   Removing or adding the window  sizegadget  without  changing  the
        window it's innerwidth/innerheight.

  SUG   Adding the possibility to add a prefix to the generated assembler
        labels so that the  source is  somewhat  easier  to include  in C
        and other HL languages.

  SUG   Give some hints and tips in the docs  how to use GTB  output with
        Gnu C.

  SUG   Multiple gadget lists for one window.

  SUG   A info window which displays all information about a gadget.

  SUG   More info in the generated  source header  like the  name  of the
        owner, date of generation, version tag, etc.

  SUG   Showing the Gadget Text's when moving.

  SUG   Copying gadgets and/or menus between different windows.

  SUG   More fonts in a single project.

  SUG   Add text attributes to the IntuiText editor.

  SUG   Add preferences  bits for each  seperate window in which  the user
        can  select  to  generate  a  call  to a  user-definable rendering
        routine. Also the user should be enabled to tell wether  or not to
        let a particular window font-adapt, if (s)he wants a IDCMP handler
        and what kind.

  SUG   Online help using the amigaguide.library.

  SUG   Add a switch for the user to choose if (s)he  wants to  default to
        the system or workbench font when the font adaptivity stuff is off

  SUG   Change the way the C source is outputted.   Split  things up  in a
        main source,  a  header,  a  protos  header  and  (if requested) a
        template source. The main and template sources should include both
        the header and protos header. Also the includes should be included
        from within the header and not the main source.

  SUG   Sharing one set of menus between  multiple  windows.  Sharing  one
        MsgPort between all windows. Both optional ofcourse.

  SUG   Crosshair.

  SUG   Multiple windows on the same screen.

  SUG   An UNDO function.

  SUG   Source name saved in the GUI file.

  ASU   Importing  IFF  ILBM  images  and  maybe  even  make  use  of the
        standard intuition boopsi images and gadgets.

  ASU   Making the GETFILE boopsi image sizeable.

  ADD   Checking if the user has used double gadget shortcuts.

  ADD   Support ToolMaker binaries.

  ADD   XPK support.

