Short: V1.20 Game Creator for many Game Types
Uploader: malcolm.murray@virgin.net (Alastair Murray)
Author: malcolm.murray@virgin.net (Alastair Murray)
Type: dev/misc
Replaces: dev/misc/Backbone1.Lha

Backbone
--------

Requires 2 Archives - Backbone1 and Backbone2

V1.20
-----
Fixed stupid file selector bug and open project bug that would cause
Backbone to lock up.

V1.19
-----
Made it a less CPU intensive, multitasking with AMIGA+A should work better
and I'm hoping (again) that this will solve some of the crashes that some
people seem to get.

V1.18
-----
Reverted back to the old way of making level maps which means there's less
flexability in the map sizes but I hope that some peoples crashes will be
solved (although I was completely unable to find any reason for a crash -
it worked fine on mine and many others!)

V1.17
-----
Fixed a problem to do with changing the number of blocks on a level. Got
rid of a stupid error message.

V1.15 & V1.16
-------------
Fixed a very emmbarassing problem that Backbone actually randomly wrote
over memory in the level editor which caused crashes on peoples machines.

V1.14
-----
Fixed a couple of stupid bugs. Particularly to do with painting level
blocks.... whoops!

V1.13
-----
Added tutorial for how to create example 1.
Fixed Auto Grab bug for getting the size of the player and objects.
Changed the way variables works so there should be less crashes and you
should be able to have larger map sizes with no problems.
File Requestors remember where they were last at.
Fiddles with the level editor a bit to make it less sensitive.

V1.12 and V1.11 and V1.10
-------------------------
Fixed another Image Ed bug. Fixed a few File Req things. Fixed a NEW
Project bug. Fixed an Edit Level bug.
Added AUTO option on the player's width and height bit. This will look at
your still frame defined for the player and work out a suitable width and
height for it. Also added this option for the baddie's heights and widths.
Added the option for different music for each level. In the level editor
you will have the option of selecting music. The general "Game Music" in
the details menu has now gone.
Updated the example files because they were earlier versions and were
causing all sorts of problems.
Fixed another stupid File Req bug.
Added Danger Level on blocks. Blocks can either 1.Hurt You on Contact
2.Kill You on Contact 3.Hurt You when Falling on them 4=Kill you when
Falling on them.
Added No. of Still frames option so that the player can constantly go
through an animation when not moving.
Added test for write protected Temp directorys so that CD-ROM version go
OK.
Adjusted Example 3 to use the steam as a "danger block"

V1.09
-----
Fixed stupid Image Editor bug.
Added a check to ensure you don't lose any blocks when saving a project.

V1.08
-----
Fixed problem with Map Sizes being incorrect in a game.
Added loads of Tool Types: See @{"Tool Types" link tooltypes} for details.
Reducing these values will help stop crashes.

V1.07
-----
IRC channel. Go to #backbone on irc.demon.co.uk OR irc.bt.net for help on
Backbone. Obviously there's not always someone there but keep trying!
Fixed Image Editor bug. Fixed Save Game bug. Reorganised the game code to
help with incompatability problems.
Added a new tooltype. EVENTS sets the maximum number of events allowed in a
level. 30 is the default. Be warned that if you change this value, games
may run funny if you don't keep it constant each time you edit it!

V1.06
-----
Most crashing bugs appear to be gone! If people still have trouble with the
iconify option (I think it's to do with PAL/NTSC) then use the AMIGA+A
option for now. Its far from perfect because the OS will go very slow using
this and you won't be able to run the games at the same time as Backbone.
Baddies can now jump! Added jumping/falling images for the baddies too.
Added Chasing Baddies of all kinds, jumping, flying etc.
Fixed a bug to do with dieing baddies staying in mid air and one to do with
flying baddies getting stuck in blocks.
Added the SIGHT option into chasing baddies so they can either only see the
player when he's in view OR see him anywhere on the map.
Changed the level editor to give seperate menus for Objects and Events.
Added Events, walking over specific blocks will activate the event which
can be: 1.Teleporting the player, 2.Creating a new object, 3=Removing an
object, 4=Playing a scene, 5=Changing a block.
Events can be either activated when the player presses SPACE or
automatically.
Fixed bugs that prevented some games from working with Full Optimisation.
Added Score to Panel.
Changed example2 to include some of the new features.
Added a new tooltype. Lockout=No means that you CAN use AMIGA+A to flick
between Backbone and the Workbench.

V1.05
-----
Fiddles with various things to improve compatability.
Removed bug to do with bouncing off baddies into a solid wall (I think)
Made an option for "Ghost" Baddies where they can walk through walls.
Changed the Iconify option back to how it was before V1.01 as I just found
out it doesn't let you run you programs at the same time as Backbone <sigh>
Renamed Backbone.Library To Bone.Library (for important reasons I assure
you), removed AMOS.Library as you don't need it any more.
Also removed the GUI drawer as it is not needed either.

V1.04
-----
Removed bug to do with map sizes. Added the ability to flick between
workbench and backbone using AMIGA+A to help the people who had problems
with the iconify option. Fiddled with one or two other things.

V1.03
-----
Reduced memory consumption by a further 150k. Fiddled with a few things in
the hope of making it more compatable. Added two new tooltypes, X=200 and
Y=200. These set the maximum sizes of the levels in blocks.
If you are having troubles with crashes then try reducing these values.
It is not recommended that you do not exceed 200. Values of 80-120 are
usually enough.

V1.02
-----
Fixed a bug to do with shooting enemies. Fixed a bug to do with loading
projects. Added a NTSC/PAL mode in the tooltypes of both games and
Backbone.

V1.01
-----
A couple of things fixed. Now uses 300k less memory which should help stop
a few crashes. Also changed the iconify option as some people had problems
with it and I wasn't happy either.

---

A game creation system that requires no programming knowledge at all.
Capable of creating various types of games including:
Side Viewed (such as Mario Bros)
Above Viewed (such as Chaos Engine)
Both Space type and Platform type.
You simple create the graphics (or use the examples supplied) and set the
various options (speed of player, placement of enemies etc.)

First release so it needs some Beta Testers!!!

Quite powerful and will continue to be improved as long as I get some
feedback!!!

E-mail me at: malcolm.murray@virgin.net
	or  : pmymagm@pmn1.maths.nott.ac.uk

Lots more stuff at my Web Page: http://freespace.virgin.net/malcolm.murray/


                System Requirements and other details
                -------------------------------------
A reasonable amount of memory and some hard drive space.

You may also need the following librarys in LIBS: (e-mail if there is
a problem)
arp
backbone (included)
diskfont
easylife (included)
explode (included)
mathieeedoubas
mathtrans
powerpacker (maybe not though)
reqtools
