Short:    Patch dos to use ixemul style path parsing
Uploader: erix@telebyte.nl
Author:   erix@telebyte.nl
Type:     dev/gcc
Requires: kick v36
Version:  1.36

ixpath v1.36
------------

This program patches some dos.library functions so you can use ixemul
style paths when calling these functions. You would I think only need
such a patch when you're using gcc utilities like `rm', `cat', etc...

Better yet, if you don't see the advantages of this patch, you probably
won't have any use for it.

usage: ixpath [anything]

Functions will only be patched when no arguments are given. If you do
pass any argument, some info will be printed and no patch will be
installed.

- path conversion: .     current dir
                   ..    parent dir
                   /foo  foo:

- does not require ixemul.library (is that a good thing?)

- includes source

- displays a list of patched functions on startup

- does not check whether patch already installed or not


disclaimer
----------

There is no warranty for this program to the extend permitted by
applicable law. Except where otherwise stated in writing the copyright
holder and/or other parties provide the program `as is' without warranty
of any kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited
to, the implied warranties or merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose. The entire risk as to the quality and performance
of the program is with you. Should the program prove defective, you
assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair or correction.

In no event will any copyright holder, or any other party who may
redistribute the program as permitted above, be liable to you for
damages, including any general, special, incidental, or consequential
damages arising out of the use or inability to use the program
(including, but not limited to loss of data or data being rendered
inaccurate or losses sustained by you or third parties or a failure
of the program to operate with any other programs), even if such holder
or other party has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

copyright
---------

This program is freeware and may be freely distributed for
non-commercial purposes, as long as all the files in the original
archive are present and have not been modified in any way.


Send me an email if you find a bug or have something to report.

