FuzzyCLIPS Version 6.04
-----------------------

NOTE: New Version as of July 16, 1996.


FuzzyCLIPS is an enhanced version of CLIPS developed at the National 
Research Council of Canada to allow the implementation of fuzzy expert 
systems. The modifications made to CLIPS contain the capability of 
handling fuzzy concepts and reasoning. It enables domain experts to 
express rules using their own fuzzy terms. It allows any mix of fuzzy 
and normal terms, numeric-comparison logic controls, and uncertainties 
in the rule and facts. Fuzzy sets and relations deal with fuzziness in 
approximate reasoning, while certainty factors for rules and facts 
manipulate the uncertainty. The use of the above modifications are 
optional and existing CLIPS programs still execute correctly.


Licence Requirements
--------------------

This software is provided by The National Research Council of Canada 
(called NRC) whose address for communications with respect to this 
software is:

   Knowledge Systems Laboratory
   Institute for Information Technology
   National Research Council Canada
   Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1A 0R6
   Electronic mail: fzclips@ai.iit.nrc.ca

Title and Conditions

NRC provides a fully paid up and non exclusive licence to the software 
package with the following conditions:

1. The software will be used for educational and research purposes only.
2. The licence does not include the right to sublicence the software, or 
   to make it available for independent use by third parties outside the 
   recipient organization.
3. Copies of the software may be made for use within the recipient 
   organization, however, copyright remains with NRC.
4. All publications arising from the use of the software shall duly 
   acknowledge such use in accordance with normal practices followed in 
   scientific research publications.
5. The software is provided in its current state and NRC assumes no 
   obligation to provide services, for example maintenance or updates.
6. All users are requested to provide their name, the name of their 
   organization and a mailing or email address so that we may track 
   the use of the software as well as provide information to users 
   as updates and enhancements are made.

Record of Use

Users are requested to inform NRC of any corrections, changes or extensions 
to the software. NRC would also appreciate being informed of noteworthy uses.

Value of the Software

This software is considered to have no market value.

Warranty

NRC disclaims any warranties, expressed, implied, or statutory, of any kind 
or nature with respect to the software, including without limitation any 
warranty of fitness for a particular purpose. NRC shall not be liable in any 
event for damages, whether direct or indirect, special or general, 
consequential or incidental, arising from the use of the software.



Access & Installation Information
---------------------------------

FuzzyCLIPS has been successfully compiled and tested on the following
machines:

        Sun Sparc workstations with Solaris OS (using cc compiler of SparcWorks)
        IBM PC DOS machines (using Borland C++ 4.5)
        Macintosh II (using the MPW C 3.3 compiler)

FuzzyCLIPS is available via anonymous ftp from ai.iit.nrc.ca and via the
World Wide Web (WWW) using URL designation 

        http://ai.iit.nrc.ca/fuzzy/fuzzy.html

After connecting to the system with ftp do the following:

1. cd pub/fzclips
2. binary             (binary transfers are required)
3. get fzclips.tar.Z  (unix version - compiled for sun workstation
                       - tar'd and compressed)
      or
   get fzclips.sea.hqx (Macintosh version - self extracting archive
                        format created with Stuffit Deluxe which
                        has been converted to binhex format)
     or
   get fzclips.sea. (Macintosh version - self extracting archive
                     format created with Stuffit Deluxe)
      or
   get fzclips.exe    (PC version - self extracting archive format 
                       created with PAK)
      or
   get fzdocs.ps (FuzzyCLIPS documentation - postscript file)

The documentation is only included with the unix version (fzclips.tar.Z 
- both postscript format and framemaker format). If the framemaker files
are required by others then they can be made available on request.

If using the WWW to access FuzzyCLIPS you will be prompted to provide your 
name and address of your organization and then will be able to access one 
or all of the documents.

On a unix system the following commands are used to install FuzzyCLIPS.

    uncompress fzclips.tar.Z  (not required if accessed from WWW since
                               decompression will already be done)
    tar -xvf fzclips.tar

Please note that the executables (FZ_CLIPS and FZ_XCLIPS) are compiled 
for the Sun Solaris OS.  Therefore if you have another unix platform 
(HP, SGI, etc.) or Sun OS you will need to make a new version
of the executables. See the file makefile.x and create a FZ_CLIPS or
FZ_XCLIPS. Note that it will be necessary to set the appropriate flags in 
setup.h as indicated in the comments in makefile.x and to also set the 
flag ANSI_COMPILER correctly.

On a Macintosh system use a Binhex program to extract the fzclips.sea 
file then double-click on the fzclips.sea file and it will 
automatically uncompress and install the system. Note that if you 
have a version of the Stuffit file compression program you could 
extract only the parts that you need instead of the entire system.

On a PC system the program fzclips.exe when executed will uncompress and 
install the FuzzyCLIPS system. Execute the program with the following 
commands:

    mkdir /fzclp604    - create a directory for the files to be unpacked 
                         into; the fzclips.exe file should be in this 
                         directory
    cd /fzclp604
    fzclips /path      - the /path is necessary to recreate the correct 
                         directory structure; if omitted then all files 
                         will be placed in the current directory without 
                         any sub-directories.

If you have a version of the PAK archiving/compression program then you 
could extract only the parts that you need instead of the entire system.


OTHER ITEMS OF INTEREST
-----------------------

There is a file README.BUGS that is maintained on directory pub/fzclips.
It contains information about bugs that have been discovered in the code
or in the documentation. It will generally describe the problem and if
not too difficult the required fix as well. In any case it will identify
the required new file(s) that need to be accessed to correct the problem. 
These new files can be found in the directory pub/fzclips/fixes.604.

There is a copy of the CLIPS 6.0 documentation in the directory 
pub/fzclips/CLIPS6.doc. It is a binhex format file of the documentation
in Macintosh WORD format. See README.doc file in that same directory.

For those who are creating FuzzyCLIPS on new machines that we have not
provided versions for (such as SGI or HP) we have included a part of our
set of tests to help verify the correct operation in the file fztests.tar.Z.
This is a compressed tar file that most unix users will be able to deal
with. It is in directory pub/fzclips.

For those with PC machines who cannot download the entire fzclips.exe file 
(which is quite large) we keep a version of PC system in 3 files in the 
directory pub/fzclips/pc.pieces. One contains the sources, one the project
info and the other the executables. See the file README in that directory.

There is an extension to CLIPS (wxCLIPS) that provides a useful set of GUI 
capabilities with CLIPS. This is provided by Julian Smart of the AI Applications
Institute, University of Edinburgh. We have merged FuzzyCLIPS with wxCLIPS in
a test mode and 2 files wxfzclp.exe (self extracting archive - unpack with
wxfzclp /path) for the PC and wxfuzzy.tar.Z for sun systems) 
are available on directory pub/fzclips/wxfuzzy. They are NOW with version 6.02A. 
Eventually we hope that this can be available in its entirety through Julian Smart's 
ftp site. Try the test version. There is a rather nice (graphical) demo of the shower
problem and another of the control of an inverted pendulum.
 
[ please NOTE the distributed version of the example 
 `pendulum.clp' may need to be changed slightly for PC systems.
  Change the following line:

    ?*system* = "sun-xview" ;; either "sun-xview" or "PC-windows"

  to read

    ?*system* = "PC-windows" ;; either "sun-xview" or "PC-windows"
]

There is a copy of the previous version of FuzzyCLIPS (6.02A) in directory
pub/fzclips/fzclips.602A for those who might need it.

Finally there are some extra examples (not well commented) that implement some
examples from Earl Cox's Fuzzy Systems Handbook. These are in directory pub/fzclips/coxstuff.
