







Volume III
Interfaces Guide

CLIPS Version 6.0

June 2nd 1993










Software Technology Branch

Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
CLIPS Interfaces Guide
Version 6.0   June 2nd 1993

CONTENTS
Preface	vii
Acknowledgements	xi
Section 1 - Introduction	13
Section 2 - CLIPS Windows Interface	15
2.1 The File Menu	16
2.1.1 Load Constructs .. (^L)	16
2.1.2 Load Batch...	17
2.1.3 Load Binary Image...	17
2.1.4 Turn Dribble On...	17
2.1.5 Save Binary...	17
2.1.6 Editor... (^E)	18
2.1.7 Quit CLIPS (^Q)	18
2.2 The Edit Menu	18
2.2.1 Paste (^V)	18
2.2.2 Complete... (^J)	18
2.3 The Execution Menu	20
2.3.1 Reset (^U)	20
2.3.2 Run (^R)	20
2.3.3 Step (^T)	20
2.3.4 Watch... (^W)	21
2.3.5 Options...	22
2.3.6 Preferences...	23
2.3.7 Clear CLIPS	24
2.4 The Browse Menu	24
2.4.1 Defrule Manager...	25
2.4.2 Deffacts Manager...	26
2.4.3 Deftemplate Manager...	27
2.4.4 Deffunction Manager...	28
2.4.5 Defglobals Manager...	29
2.4.6 Defgeneric Manager...	30
2.4.7 Defclass Manager...	33
2.4.8 Definstances Manager...	35
2.4.9 Agenda Manager...	36
2.5 The Window Menu	37
2.5.1 Facts Window	37
2.5.2 Agenda Window	37
2.5.3 Instances Window	37
2.5.4 Globals Window	37
2.5.5 Focus Window	38
2.5.6 All Above	38
2.5.7 None	38
2.5.8 Clear Dialog Window	38
2.6 The HELP Menu	38
2.6.1 About CLIPS 6.0	39
2.6.2 CLIPS Help	39
2.6.3 Command Complete (^J)	39
2.7 The CLIPS Editor	40
2.7.1 The File Menu	40
2.7.1.1 New (^N)	40
2.7.1.2 Open... (^O)	40
2.7.1.3 Save  (^S)	40
2.7.1.4 Save As...	41
2.7.1.5 Revert	41
2.7.1.6 Printer Setup	41
2.7.1.7 Print... (^P)	41
2.7.1.8 Quit Editor (^Q)	41
2.7.2 The Edit Menu	42
2.7.2.1 Undo (^Z)	42
2.7.2.2 Cut (^X)	42
2.7.2.3 Copy (^C)	42
2.7.2.4 Paste (^V)	42
2.7.2.5 Clear	42
2.7.2.6 Balance (^B)	43
2.7.2.7 Complete... (^J)	43
2.7.2.8 Set Font...	43
2.7.3 The Buffer Menu	44
2.7.3.1 Find (^F)	44
2.7.3.2 Replace (^R)	44
2.7.3.3 Load Selection ... (^K)	45
2.7.3.4 Batch Selection	45
2.7.3.5 Load Buffer	46
2.7.4 The HELP Menu	46
2.7.4.1 About the Editor	46
2.7.4.2 CLIPS Help	46
CLIPS Help	46
2.7.4.3 Balance (^B)	46
2.7.4.4 Command Complete (^J)	46
2.8 Creating the Windows 3.1 Executables	47
2.8.1 Building the CLIPS Interface Executable Using Borland C++ 3.1	47
2.8.2 Building the CLIPS Editor using Borland C++ 3.1	48
2.8.3 Building an EasyWin version of CLIPS for Windows.	49
2.8.4 Building the CLIPS DOS Executable Using Borland C++ 3.1	50
Section 3 - CLIPS Macintosh Interface	51
3.1 The _ Menu	52
3.1.1 About CLIPS...	52
3.2 The File Menu	52
3.2.1 New (_N)	52
3.2.2 Open... (_O)	53
3.2.3 Load... (_L)	53
3.2.4 Load Batch...	53
3.2.5 Load Binary...	53
3.2.6 Turn Dribble On...	53
3.2.7 Close (_W)	54
3.2.8 Save (_S)	54
3.2.9 Save As...	54
3.2.10 Save Binary...	54
3.2.11 Revert	55
3.2.12 Page Setup...	55
3.2.13 Print...	55
3.2.14 Quit (_Q)	55
3.3 The Edit Menu	55
3.3.1 Undo (_Z)	56
3.3.2 Cut (_X)	56
3.3.3 Copy (_C)	56
3.3.4 Paste (_V)	56
3.3.5 Clear	56
3.3.6 Balance (_B)	56
3.3.7 Complete... (_J)	57
3.3.8 Set Font...	58
3.3.9 Clear Window	58
3.3.10 Preferences...	59
3.4 The Buffer Menu	61
3.4.1 Find... (_F)	61
3.4.2 Find Again (_G)	62
3.4.3 Replace (_H)	62
3.4.4 Replace and Find Again (_D)	62
3.4.5 Replace All	62
3.4.6 Load Selection (_K)	62
3.4.7 Batch Selection (_M)	63
3.4.8 Load Buffer	63
3.5 The Execution Menu	63
3.5.1 Reset (_E)	63
3.5.2 Run (_R)	63
3.5.3 Step (_T)	64
3.5.4 Watch...	64
3.5.5 Options...	65
3.5.6 Clear CLIPS	66
3.6 The Browse Menu	66
3.6.1 The Module Menu	67
3.6.2 Defrule Manager...	67
3.6.3 Deffacts Manager...	69
3.6.4 Deftemplate Manager...	69
3.6.5 Deffunction Manager...	70
3.6.6 Defglobal Manager...	71
3.6.7 Defgeneric Manager...	72
3.6.8 Defclass Manager...	74
3.6.9 Definstances Manager...	76
3.6.10 Agenda Manager...	77
3.7 The Window Menu	78
3.7.1 Dialog Window	79
3.7.2 Facts Window	79
3.7.3 Agenda Window	79
3.7.4 Instances Window	79
3.7.5 Globals Window	79
3.7.6 Focus Window	79
3.7.7 All Above	80
3.7.8 Titled and Untitled Edit Windows	80
3.8 Creating The Macintosh Executables	80
3.8.1 Building the CLIPS Generic Executable Using THINK C	80
3.8.2 Building the CLIPS Interface Executable Using THINK C	81
3.8.3 Building the CLIPS Generic Executable Using MPW C	82
3.8.4 Building the CLIPS Interface Executable Using MPW C	82
Section 4 - CLIPS X Window Interface	85
4.1 The  Menu	85
4.2 The File Menu	86
4.2.1 Edit... (^V)	86
4.2.2 Complete... (^C)	86
4.2.3 Load... (^L)	87
4.2.4 Load Batch...	87
4.2.5 Load Binary...	88
4.2.6 Dribble... (^N)	88
4.2.7 Save Binary...	88
4.2.8 Quit (^Q)	88
4.3 The Execution Menu	89
4.3.1 Reset (^E)	89
4.3.2 Run (^R)	89
4.3.3 Step (^T)	89
4.3.4 Watch...	89
4.3.5 Options...	91
4.3.6 Clear CLIPS (^K)	92
4.3.7 Clear Window (^N)	92
4.4 The Browse Menu	92
4.4.1 Module Menu	93
4.4.2 Defrule Manager...	94
4.4.3 Deffacts Manager...	95
4.4.4 Deftemplate Manager...	96
4.4.5 Deffunction Manager...	97
4.4.6 Defglobal Manager	98
4.4.7 Defgeneric Manager	99
4.4.8 Defclass Manager...	101
4.4.9 Definstances Manager...	103
4.4.10 Agenda Manager...	104
4.5 The Window Menu	105
4.5.1 Facts Window	105
4.5.2 Agenda Window	105
4.5.3 Instances Window	105
4.5.4 Globals Window	105
4.5.5 Focus Window	106
4.5.6 All	106
4.5.7 None	106
4.5.8 Command Line CLIPS (^Z)	106
4.5.9 Color Utility	106
4.5.9.1 How To Use The Color Utility	106
4.6 The Editor	108
4.6.1 File	108
4.6.1.1 Save	108
4.6.1.2 Save As	108
4.6.1.3 Revert	109
4.6.1.4 Load Selection	109
4.6.1.5 Batch Selection	109
4.6.1.6 Load Buffer	109
4.6.1.7 Exit	109
4.6.2 Edit	110
4.6.2.3 Complete... (^C)	110
4.6.2.2 Cut	111
4.6.2.3 Paste	111
4.6.2.4 Search/Replace... (^S/^R)	112
4.6.2.5 Balance (^B)	112
4.6.2.6 Beginning of File	112
4.6.2.7 End of File	112
4.6.3 Font	112
4.6.3.1 5x8	113
4.6.3.2 6x10	113
4.6.3.3 6x13bold	113
4.6.3.4 7x13bold	113
4.6.3.5 8x13bold	113
4.6.3.6 9x15bold	113
4.6.3.7 10x20	113
4.6.3.8 12x24	113
4.6.4 Help	114
4.6.4.1 Key Bindings	114
4.7 Building The CLIPS X Window Interface	114

Preface

The History of CLIPS

The origins of the C Language Integrated Production System (CLIPS) date back to 1984 at NASA's Johnson Space Center. At this time, the Artificial Intelligence Section (now the Software Technology Branch) had developed over a dozen prototype expert systems applications using state-of-the-art hardware and software. However, despite extensive demonstrations of the potential of expert systems, few of these applications were put into regular use. This failure to provide expert systems technology within NASA's operational computing constraints could largely be traced to the use of LISP as the base language for nearly all expert system software tools at that time. In particular, three problems hindered the use of LISP based expert system tools within NASA: the low availability of LISP on a wide variety of conventional computers, the high cost of state-of-the-art LISP tools and hardware, and the poor integration of LISP with other languages (making embedded applications difficult).

The Artificial Intelligence Section felt that the use of a conventional language, such as C, would eliminate most of these problems, and initially looked to the expert system tool vendors to provide an expert system tool written using a conventional language. Although a number of tool vendors started converting their tools to run in C, the cost of each tool was still very high, most were restricted to a small variety of computers, and the projected availability times were discouraging. To meet all of its needs in a timely and cost effective manner, it became evident that the Artificial Intelligence Section would have to develop its own C based expert system tool.

The prototype version of CLIPS was developed in the spring of 1985 in a little over two months. Particular attention was given to making the tool compatible with expert systems under development at that time by the Artificial Intelligence Section. Thus, the syntax of CLIPS was made to very closely resemble the syntax of a subset of the ART expert system tool developed by Inference Corporation. Although originally modelled from ART, CLIPS was developed entirely without assistance from Inference or access to the ART source code.

The original intent of the prototype was to gain useful insight and knowledge about the construction of expert system tools and to lay the groundwork for the construction of a fully usable tool. The CLIPS prototype had numerous shortcomings, however, it demonstrated the feasibility of the project concept. After additional development, it became apparent that sufficient enhancements to the prototype would produce a low cost expert system tool that would be ideal for the purposes of training. Another year of development and internal use went into CLIPS improving its portability, performance, and functionality. A reference manual and user's guide were written during this time. The first release of CLIPS to groups outside of NASA, version 3.0, occurred in the summer of 1986.

Further enhancements transformed CLIPS from a training tool into a tool useful for the development and delivery of expert systems as well. Versions 4.0 and 4.1 of CLIPS, released respectively in the summer and fall of 1987, featured greatly improved performance, external language integration, and delivery capabilities. Version 4.2 of CLIPS, released in the summer of 1988, was a complete rewrite of CLIPS for code modularity. Also included with this release were an architecture manual providing a detailed description of the CLIPS software architecture and a utility program for aiding in the verification and validation of rule-based programs. Version 4.3 of CLIPS, released in the summer of 1989, added still more functionality.

Originally, the primary representation methodology in CLIPS was a forward chaining rule language based on the Rete algorithm (hence the Production System part of the CLIPS acronym). Version 5.0 of CLIPS, released in the spring of 1991, introduced two new programming paradigms: procedural programming (as found in languages such as C and Ada) and object-oriented programming (as found in languages such as the Common Lisp Object System and Smalltalk). The object-oriented programming language provided within CLIPS is called the CLIPS Object-Oriented Language (COOL). Version 5.1 of CLIPS, released in the fall of 1991, was primarily a software maintenance upgrade required to support the newly developed and/or enhanced X Window, MS-DOS, and Macintosh interfaces.

Because of its portability, extensibility, capabilities, and low-cost, CLIPS has received widespread acceptance throughout the government, industry, and academia. The development of CLIPS has helped to improve the ability to deliver expert system technology throughout the public and private sectors for a wide range of applications and diverse computing environments. CLIPS is being used by over 4,000 users throughout the public and private community including: all NASA sites and branches of the military, numerous federal bureaus, government contractors, universities, and many private companies. CLIPS is available at a nominal cost through COSMIC, the NASA software distribution center (for more on COSMIC, see appendix E of the Basic Programming Guide).

CLIPS Version 6.0

Version 6.0 of CLIPS contains five major enhancements. First, instances of user-defined classes in COOL can be pattern-matched on the left-hand side of rules. Second, CLIPS now contains considerable support for knowledge based systems software engineering. Support is now provided for building modular systems and many of the features previously available in CRSV are now directly supported in CLIPS (such as constraint consistency among uses of the same variable). Third, deftemplates can now have more than one multifield slot. Fourth, it is now possible to nest other conditional elements within a  and two new conditional elements,  and , are supported. Fifth, a Windows 3.1 CLIPS interface is now available for PC compatible computers. In addition, MS-DOS 286 and 386 versions of CLIPS are available which can use extended memory. For a detailed listing of differences between versions 5.1 and 6.0 of CLIPS, refer to appendix D of the Basic Programming Guide.

CLIPS Documentation

Three documents are provided with CLIPS.

•	The CLIPS Reference Manual which is split into the following parts: 

•	Volume I - The Basic Programming Guide, which provides the definitive description of CLIPS syntax and examples of usage. 

•	Volume II - The Advanced Programming Guide, which provides detailed discussions of the more sophisticated features in CLIPS and is intended for people with extensive programming experience who are using CLIPS for advanced applications.

•	Volume III - The Interfaces Guide, which provides information on machine-specific interfaces.

•	The CLIPS Users Guide which provides an introduction to CLIPS and is intended for people with little or no expert system experience. 

•	Volume I - Rules, which provides an introduction to rule-based programming using CLIPS. 

•	Volume II - Objects, which provides an introduction to object-oriented programming using COOL. 
 
•	The CLIPS Architecture Manual which provides a detailed description of the CLIPS software architecture. This manual describes each module of CLIPS in terms of functionality and purpose. It is intended for people with extensive programming experience who are interested in modifying CLIPS or who want to gain a deeper understanding of how CLIPS works.


Acknowledgements
As with any large project, CLIPS is the result of the efforts of numerous people. The primary contributors have been: Robert Savely, previous branch chief of the STB and now chief scientist of advanced software technology at JSC, who conceived the project and provided overall direction and support;  Chris Culbert, current branch chief of the STB, who managed the project, wrote the original CLIPS Reference Manual, and designed the original version of CRSV; Gary Riley, who designed and developed the rule-based portion of CLIPS, co-authored the CLIPS Reference Manual and CLIPS Architecture Manual, and developed the Macintosh interface for CLIPS; Brian Donnell, who designed and developed the CLIPS Object Oriented Language (COOL), co-authored the CLIPS Reference Manual and CLIPS Architecture Manual, and developed the previous MS-DOS interfaces for CLIPS; Bebe Ly, who was responsible for maintenance and enhancements to CRSV and is now responsible for developing the X Window interface for CLIPS; Chris Ortiz, who developed the Windows 3.1 interface for CLIPS; Dr. Joseph Giarratano of the University of Houston-Clear Lake, who wrote the CLIPS Users Guide; and Frank Lopez, who wrote the original prototype version of CLIPS.

Many other individuals contributed to the design, development, review, and general support of CLIPS, including: Jack Aldridge, Carla Armstrong, Paul Baffes, Ann Baker, Stephen Baudendistel, Les Berke, Tom Blinn, Marlon Boarnet, Dan Bochsler, Bob Brown, Barry Cameron, Tim Cleghorn, Major Paul Condit, Major Steve Cross, Andy Cunningham, Dan Danley, Mark Engelberg, Kirt Fields, Ken Freeman, Kevin Greiner, Ervin Grice, Sharon Hecht, Patti Herrick, Mark Hoffman, Grace Hua, Gordon Johnson, Phillip Johnston, Sam Juliano, Ed Lineberry, Bowen Loftin, Linda Martin, Daniel McCoy, Terry McGregor, Becky McGuire, Scott Meadows, C. J. Melebeck, Paul Mitchell, Steve Mueller, Cynthia Rathjen, Eric Raymond, Reza Razavipour, Marsha Renals, Monica Rua, Tim Saito, Gregg Swietek, Eric Taylor, James Villarreal, Lui Wang, Bob Way, Jim Wescott, Charlie Wheeler, and Wes White.

Section 1 - Introduction
This manual is the Interfaces Guide for CLIPS. It is intended for users interested in using the machine specific interfaces for CLIPS. Section 2 of this manual describes the IBM PC compatible Windows interface for CLIPS, Section 3 describes the Macintosh interface for CLIPS, and Section 4 describes the X Window interface for CLIPS.

Section 2 - CLIPS Windows Interface
This section provides a brief summary of each menu command found in the CLIPS 6.0 Windows interface. The menus are listed in the left to right order in which they appear in the menu bar. The commands within each menu are also listed in the order in which they appear in the menu.

The rest of the CLIPS 6.0 Windows interface is straightforward, following Windows interface standards. Commands can be entered directly in the dialog window in a fashion similar to the standard CLIPS command line interface. The integrated editor is implemented in a fashion similar to that of other Windows editors.

If rules are not being executed, then execution of the current command or CLIPS program can be halted by holding down the control key while pressing the 'C' key. If rules are being executed, then rule execution can be interrupted on a rule firing boundary by holding down the control key while pressing the 'C' key. Holding down the shift key, the control key, and the period key will halt rule execution after the current RHS action. The Halt menu item can also be selected from the Execution menu during execution. Selecting this menu item is equivalent to holding down the control key while pressing the 'C' key. If the shift key is held down before clicking in the menu bar, the Halt menu item is changed to the Halt Now! menu item. Selecting this menu item is equivalent to holding down the shift key and the control key while pressing the 'C' key.

Some menu commands are available while CLIPS is executing a user program. Among these commands are the Options... menu item, the Watch... menu item, the Turn Dribble On.../Turn Dribble Off menu item, and all menu items in Window menu. The command summary for each menu item indicates whether it is available while CLIPS is executing. In addition, windows may be moved and re-sized while CLIPS is executing.
2.1 THE FILE MENU

2.1.1 Load Constructs .. (^L)
This command displays the standard Windows 3.1 file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a text file to be loaded into the knowledge base. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (load <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS load command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.  



Note: when using the CLIPS command  (load <file-name>) specify the path using the forward slash character '/' or a double backslash '\\' instead of the standard DOS delimiter '\'.  

For example,

(load "C: / CLIPSWIN / EXAMPLES / TEST.CLP")

or

(load "C: \\ CLIPSWIN \\ EXAMPLES \\ TEST.CLP") 
2.1.2 Load Batch...
This command displays the standard file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a text file to be executed as a batch file. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (batch <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS batch command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.  
2.1.3 Load Binary Image...
This command displays the standard Windows 3.1 file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a file to be loaded as a binary image. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (bload <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS bload command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.  
2.1.4 Turn Dribble On...
This command displays the standard Windows 3.1 file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a text file in which subsequent display window output will be stored. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (dribble-on <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS dribble-on command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. While the dribble file is active, this menu item will be modified to read Turn Dribble Off. Selecting the menu item at this time will close the dribble text file. The Turn Dribble Off command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (dribble-off). This command is available when CLIPS is executing (however the commands will not be echoed to the dialog window).
2.1.5 Save Binary...
This command allows the constructs currently stored in CLIPS to be saved as a binary image. A dialog box will appear to prompt for the new file name in which to store the binary image. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (bsave <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS bsave command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.  
2.1.6 Editor... (^E)
This command will start an application used to edit CLIPS text files.  This command is available when CLIPS is executing. For more information see Section 2.7 - The CLIPS Editor.
2.1.7 Quit CLIPS (^Q)
This command exits CLIPS. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.2 THE EDIT MENU

2.2.1 Paste (^V)
This command copies the contents of the Clipboard in the display window. Pasted text to the display window is always placed at the end of the display window regardless of whether the caret is. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.2.2 Complete... (^J)
This command "completes" the symbol currently being entered in the display window. In the display window, the symbol to be completed is always the last symbol in the display window (the current selection has no effect). If no possible completion's exist, a beep is sounded. If only one possible completion exists (e.g. "deftemplat" for "deftemplate"), then the symbol is automatically completed. If more than one completion exists, a dialog is displayed showing all possible completion's (or optionally a beep is sounded-See section 2.3.6). 

The following dialog shows the possible completion's for the symbol "get-":

Click the OK button to complete the symbol with the current selection. Click the Cancel button to terminate the dialog without any command completion. Note that symbols defined by the user (as part of a construct or a CLIPS data structure such as a fact or instance) will also be listed for command completion. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.

Click the Help button to obtain hypertext information about the current selection. Note that some of the selections do not have an associated help entry, in this event, the help system will return a topic not found error.  For more information about help see Section 2.6.2.
2.3 THE EXECUTION MENU

2.3.1 Reset (^U)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (reset). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (reset) will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. If Professor Joe Warnings are enabled and activation's are currently on the agenda, a dialog box will appear issuing a warning and providing an opportunity to cancel this command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.3.2 Run (^R)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (run). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (run) will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. During execution, this menu command is changed to Halt and can be selected to halt execution (as if a command period had been entered). Holding the shift key down while selecting this menu item is equivalent to entering command-shift-period. For an explanation of the different methods of halting execution refer to the introduction at the beginning of this section.
2.3.3 Step (^T)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (run <limit>) where <limit> is the value for the Step Rule Firing Increment. (it is set using the Options... command under the Edit menu). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (run <limit>) will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. If the default value for the Step Rule Firing Increment is used, this command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (run 1). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.3.4 Watch... (^W)
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set various watch items as enabled or disabled.

Watch items can be enabled or disabled by clicking the appropriate check box. Enabled watch items have a check in their check box. Disabled watch items have no check mark in their check box. Pressing the All button checks all of the watch item check boxes. Pressing the None button unchecks all of the watch item check boxes. Clicking the OK button exits the dialog and changes the current watch settings to those shown in the dialog. Clicking the Cancel button exits the dialog, but retains the original settings of the watch items before the dialog was entered.

This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.3.5 Options...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set various CLIPS execution options.

The Salience Evaluation pop-up menu allows the current salience evaluation behavior to be changed (to either when-defined, when-activated, or every-cycle). The Strategy pop-up menu allows the current conflict resolution strategy to be changed (to either depth, breadth, lex, mea, complexity, simplicity, or random). The Static Constraint Checking, Dynamic Constraint Checking, Reset Global Variables, Sequence Expansion Operator Recognition, Incremental Reset, Auto-Float Dividend, and Fact Duplication check boxes are used to enable and disable the named CLIPS option. Enabled options have a check in their check box while disabled items have none. The Incremental Reset option cannot be changed if any defrules are currently defined. Clicking the OK button exits the dialog and changes the CLIPS execution options settings to those shown in the dialog. Clicking the Cancel button exits the dialog, but retains the original settings of the CLIPS execution options before the dialog was entered.

This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.3.6 Preferences...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set the parameters for several options in the CLIPS Windows interface.

Enable Professor Joe Warnings option determines whether certain warnings are issued. The default for this option is on. When Professor Joe Warnings are enabled, certain commands chosen from the menu bar will display a dialog box giving the user the option to abort the command. For example, executing a clear command with the Professor Joe feature on will display the following dialog box:

Professor Joe Warnings will only be issued for commands chosen from the menu bar. For example, typing a clear command directly into the dialog window and executing it will not display a warning dialog box regardless of whether Professor Joe Warnings are enabled. From the CLIPS command prompt, the command set-joe-warnings can be used to enable and disable Professor Joe Warnings (pass the symbol TRUE to enable warnings and the symbol FALSE to disable warnings).

The Command Completion Dialog option determines whether a dialog is displayed to determine which completion to use if more than one completion is available. The default for this option is on. That is, a dialog will be displayed whenever there is more than one possible completion. If this option is off, then a beep is sounded when no possible completion's exist. From the CLIPS command prompt, the command set-completion-dialog can be used to enable and disable the use of the completion dialog when there is more than one choice (pass the symbol TRUE to enable the completion dialog and the symbol FALSE to disable it). 

The Step Rule Firing Increment option determines how many rules will be executed when the Step command (see Execution menu) is issued. Any integer between 1 and 999 inclusive can be entered for this option. The default value for this option is 1.

 This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.3.7 Clear CLIPS
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (clear). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (clear) will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. If Professor Joe Warnings are enabled, a dialog box will appear issuing a warning and providing an opportunity to cancel this command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.4 THE BROWSE MENU

This menu displays a list of the defmodules currently defined in the CLIPS environment. A check mark is displayed by the current module. Selecting a module from the menu list changes the current module to the selected item.
2.4.1 Defrule Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defrules in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defrule selected from the list of defrules currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to issuing an undefrule command. The Refresh button will refresh the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a refresh command. The Matches command will list the matches for the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a matches command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefrule command. Both the Matches and Pprint buttons echo the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Breakpoint check box is used to enable or disable a breakpoint on the currently selected defrule. Rules with a breakpoint set have a check in their check box while rules without a breakpoint have none. The Watch Activations check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a rule is activated or deactivated. If the check box for a rule is checked, then activation/deactivation messages for the rule will be printed. The Watch Firings check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a rule is executed. If the check box for a rule is checked, then execution messages for the rule will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defrule Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.4.2 Deffacts Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deffacts in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deffacts selected from the list of deffacts currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected deffacts. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeffacts command The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deffacts. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeffacts command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deffacts Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.4.3 Deftemplate Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deftemplates in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deftemplate selected from the list of deftemplates currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected deftemplate. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeftemplate command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deftemplate. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeftemplate command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed whenever a fact is asserted or retracted. If the check box for a deftemplate is checked, then assert/retract messages for facts associated with the deftemplate will be printed. 

 Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deftemplate Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.4.4 Deffunction Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deffunctions in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deffunction selected from the list of deffunctions currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected deffunction. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeffunction command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deffunction. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeffunction command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a deffunction begins and ends execution. If the check box for a deffunction is checked, then execution messages for the deffunction will be printed. 

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deffunction Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.4.5 Defglobals Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defglobals in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defglobal selected from the list of defglobals currently in the knowledge base. 

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defglobal. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefglobal command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defglobal. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefglobal command.  The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defglobals Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.4.6 Defgeneric Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defgenerics in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defgeneric selected from the list of defgenerics currently in the knowledge base. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defgeneric Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defgeneric. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefgeneric command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defgeneric. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefgeneric command.  The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a generic function begins and ends execution. If the check box for a deffunction is checked, then execution messages for the generic function will be printed.

The Methods... button displays a dialog box allowing the defmethods for the currently selected defgeneric to be browsed. The dialog box that appears in response to this button allows an operation to be performed on a defmethod selected from the list of defmethods currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defmethod. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefmethod command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defmethod. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefmethod command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a specific method of a generic function begins and ends execution. If the check box for a defmethod is checked, then execution messages for the method will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to return control to the Defgeneric Manager dialog box.
2.4.7 Defclass Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defclasses in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defclass selected from the list of defclasses currently in the knowledge base. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defclass Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefclass command. The Describe button will describe the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a describe-class command. The Browse command displays the class hierarchy for the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a browse-class command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefclass command. The Describe, Browse, and Pprint buttons echo the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.  

The Watch Instances check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when an instance is created or deleted. If the check box for a defclass is checked, then messages will be printed whenever an instance of that class is created or deleted. The Watch Slots check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when an instance's slot values are changed. If the check box for a defclass is checked, then messages will be printed whenever an instance of that class has a slot value changed.

The Message Handlers... button displays a dialog box allowing the message handlers for the currently selected class to be browsed. The dialog box that appears in response to this button allows an operation to be performed on a defmessage-handler selected from the list of defmessage-handlers currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defmessage-handler. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefmessage-handler command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defmessage-handler. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefmessage-handler command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a message-handler begins and ends execution. If the check box for a defmessage-handler is checked, then execution messages for the message-handler will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to return control to the Defclass Manager dialog box.
2.4.8 Definstances Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the definstances in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a definstances selected from the list of definstances currently in the knowledge base. 

The Remove button will remove the currently selected definstances. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefinstances command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected definstances. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefinstances command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Definstances Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.4.9 Agenda Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the activation's on the agenda to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows any activation on the agenda to be removed or fired.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected activation from the agenda. The Fire button will place the currently selected activation at the top of the agenda (regardless of its salience). The dialog is then exited and the CLIPS command (run 1) will then be echoed to the Dialog Window, causing the activation to fire. Any number of remove operations (except the Fire button) can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Agenda Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.5 THE WINDOW MENU

2.5.1 Facts Window
This command toggles the display of the Facts Window.  The Facts Window displays the list and number of facts in the fact-list. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicate if it is visible. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.5.2 Agenda Window
This command toggles the display of the Agenda Window.  The Agenda Window displays the list of activation's currently on the agenda. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is visible. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.5.3 Instances Window
This command toggles the display of the Instances Window.  The Instances Window displays the list of existing instances and their slot values. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is visible. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.5.4 Globals Window
This command toggles the display of the Globals Window The Globals Window displays the list of global variables and their current values. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is visible. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.5.5 Focus Window
This command toggles the display of the Focus Window The Focus Window displays the current focus stack. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is visible. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.5.6 All Above
This command displays the Dialog Window, Facts Window, Instances Window, Globals Window, and Focus Window (creating them if they do not already exist). This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.5.7 None
This command conceals the Dialog Window, Facts Window, Instances Window, Globals Window, and Focus Window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.5.8 Clear Dialog Window
This command clears all of the text in the dialog window. From the CLIPS command prompt, the command clear-window (which takes no arguments) will also clear all of the text in the dialog window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.6 THE HELP MENU

2.6.1 About CLIPS 6.0
This command displays version information about CLIPS. Click the OK button to continue. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
2.6.2 CLIPS Help
This command displays the CLIPS hypertext help information. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (winhelp <topic-name>) or (winhelp). This command is available when CLIPS is executing. For more information see the Microsoft Windows User's Guide on using help.


2.6.3 Command Complete (^J)
(See section 2.2.2). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.7 THE CLIPS EDITOR
2.7.1 The File Menu

2.7.1.1 New (^N)
This command opens a new buffer for editing with the window name untitled.
2.7.1.2 Open... (^O)
This command displays the standard file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a text file to be opened as a buffer for editing. Only one file can be opened at a time.
2.7.1.3 Save  (^S)
This command saves the file in the active edit window. If the file is untitled, a dialog box will prompt for a file name under which to save the file. The file type option in the standard file dialog box determines whether a file is saved as a batch file or a text file. CLIPS batch file documents are executed as a series of commands when launched, whereas CLIPS text file documents are placed in an editing buffer when launched. Both types of documents can be edited as text files in the editor.
2.7.1.4 Save As...
This command allows the active edit window to be saved under a new name. A dialog box will appear to prompt for the new file name. The name of the editing window will be changed to the new file name.
2.7.1.5 Revert
This command restores the active edit window to the last-saved version of the file in the buffer. Any changes made since the file was last saved will be discarded.
2.7.1.6 Printer Setup
This command allows the user to specify information about the size of paper used by the printer.
2.7.1.7 Print... (^P)
This command allows the user to print the active edit window.
2.7.1.8 Quit Editor (^Q)
This command closes the active window if it has a go-away box in its upper left corner. If the active window is an editing buffer that has been modified since it was last saved, a dialog box will confirm whether the changes should be saved or discarded or whether the close command should be canceled.
2.7.2 The Edit Menu

2.7.2.1 Undo (^Z)
This command allows you to undo your last editing operation. Typing, cut, copy, paste, and clear operations can all be undone.
2.7.2.2 Cut (^X)
This command removes selected text in the edit window and places it in the Clipboard.
2.7.2.3 Copy (^C)
This command copies selected text in the edit window and places it in the Clipboard.
2.7.2.4 Paste (^V)
This command copies the contents of the Clipboard to the selection point in the edit window . If there is selected text in the edit window, it is replaced by the contents of the Clipboard. 
2.7.2.5 Clear
This command removes selected text in the edit window. The selected text is not placed in the Clipboard. 
2.7.2.6 Balance (^B)
This command operates on the current selection in the edit window by attempting to find the smallest selection containing the current selection which has balanced parentheses. Repeatedly using this command will select larger and larger selections of text until a balanced selection cannot be found. The balance command is a purely textual operation and can be confused by parentheses found in strings.
2.7.2.7 Complete... (^J)
(See section 2.2.2). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.7.2.8 Set Font...
This command allows the font used in the currently active editing buffer to be changed. When you use this command, the following dialog will appear:

Select a font and font size from the popup menus on the left of the dialog. The sentence at the bottom of the dialog will be displayed using the selected font. Click the OK button to change the font used in the currently active editing buffer. Click the Cancel button to retain the current font setting.
2.7.3 The Buffer Menu

2.7.3.1 Find (^F)
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set parameters for text search operations. The dialog box that appears allows a search string to be specified.



The Match Case option makes the string search operation case-insensitive for alphabetic characters; that is, the string "Upper" will not match the string "uPPER". The default for this setting is off.

Once search options have been set, one of three search dialog buttons can be pressed. The Find Next button will search for teach occurrence of the string in the edit window starting at the end of the current selection and preceding to the end of the buffer. The Cancel button aborts the find command. The search options are restored to the values they had before the dialog box was entered.
2.7.3.2 Replace (^R)
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set parameters for text search and replacement operations.  The dialog box that appears allows a search and replacement string to be specified.

The Match Case option makes the string search operation case-insensitive for alphabetic characters; that is, the string "Upper" will not match the string "uPPER". The default for this setting is off.

Once search options have been set, one of three search dialog buttons can be pressed. The Find Next button will search for each occurrence of the "Find What" string in the edit window starting at the end of the current selection and preceding to the end of the buffer. The Replace button will replace one instance of the "Find What" string with the "Replace With" string. The Replace All button will replace every instance of the "Find What" string with the "Replace With" string without user verification. The Cancel button aborts the replace command. The search and replace strings and options are restored to the values they had before the dialog box was entered.
2.7.3.3 Load Selection ... (^K)
This command loads the current selection from the edit window into the CLIPS knowledge base. Standard error detection and recovery routines used to load constructs from a file are also used when loading a selection (i.e., if a construct has an error in it, the rest of the construct will be skipped over until another construct to be loaded is found). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.7.3.4 Batch Selection
This command treats the current selection in the edit window as if it were a batch file and executes it as a series of commands. Standard error detection and recovery routines used to load construct from a file are not used when batching a selection (i.e., if a construct has an error in it, a number of ancillary errors may be generated by subsequent parts of the same construct following the error). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.7.3.5 Load Buffer
This command loads the contents of the active edit window into the CLIPS knowledge base. It is equivalent to selecting the entire buffer and executing a Load Selection command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.7.4 THE HELP MENU

2.7.4.1 About the Editor
This command displays version information about the CLIPS Editor. Click the OK button to continue.
2.7.4.2 CLIPS Help
CLIPS Help
(See section 2.6.2.).
2.7.4.3 Balance (^B)
(See section  2.7.2.6)
2.7.4.4 Command Complete (^J)
(See section 2.2.2). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
2.8 CREATING THE WINDOWS 3.1 EXECUTABLES
2.8.1 Building the CLIPS Interface Executable Using Borland C++ 3.1
The following steps describe how to create the Windows 3.1 machine specific version of CLIPS using Borland C++ 3.1: 

1)	The following source files are needed to build the interface in addition to the source files for the standard CLIPS executable:
 
clipsdde.h
diag_win.h
dialog.h
ids.h
main.h
menucmds.h
status.h





clipsdde.c
diag_win.c
dialog1.c
dialog2.c
main.c
menu.c
menucmds.c
status.c
system.c







clipswin.def
clipswin.rc
clipswin.ico
joe.bmp
wait.cur
query.cur
1.cur
2.cur
3.cur
4.cur
5.cur
6.cur
7.cur
8.cur
9.cur


2)	From DOS, Create a directory named C:\CLIPS. 

3)	Create a sub-directory named SOURCE in the CLIPS directory. Copy all of the CLIPS source code into the C:\CLIPS\SOURCE directory. 

4)	Create a sub-directory named INTRFACE in the CLIPS directory. Windows interface source code (the .h and .c source listed in step 1) into the C:\CLIPS\INTRFACE directory. 

5)	Edit the setup.h file. Set the compiler directive flags IBM_TBC to 1, WINDOW_INTERFACE to 1, CLP_EDIT to 0, and BLOCK_MEMORY to 1. 
 
6)	Create a project (CLIPSWIN.PRJ provided) using the Borland C++ for Windows project editor (BCW.EXE). Add all the appropriate files (*.C, *.H, *.RC, *.DEF ).  Note: Both source and Interface directories contain the file main.c.  Use only the main.c from the interface directory.

7)	Select Directories in the Options Menu. Create a path to the include directories C:\BORLANDC\INCLUDE;C:\CLIPS\SOURCE;C:\CLIPS\INTRFACE. Create a path to the library directory C:\BORLANDC\LIB. Create a path to the output directory C:\CLIPS.

8)	Set the following compiler options. For Code Generation: Large Memory Model, Never Assume SS Equals DS, Treat enums as ints, Duplicate strings merged, and Pre-Compiled headers. For Entry and Exit Code Generation, set Windows explicit functions exported. For Advanced Code Generation: Automatic Far Data (Checked) and Far Data Threshold set to 10 Bytes. Use the default Optimization Options.

9)	Select the Output Windows EXE linker option. 
	
10)	Under the Compile Menu Choose Build All. 
2.8.2 Building the CLIPS Editor using Borland C++ 3.1
The following steps describe how to create the Windows machine specific version of CLIPS using Borland C++ 3.1.

1)	The following source files are needed to build the clips editor.
  
ide_bal.h
ide_dde.h
ide_ids.h
ide_misc.h
ide_srch.h







ide_bal.c
ide_dde.c
ide_main.c
ide_misc.c
ide_srch.c







ide_clp.ico
ide_clps.def
ide_clps.rc


2)	From DOS, Create a directory named C:\CLIPS. 

3)	Create a sub-directory named EDITOR in the CLIPS directory. Copy all of the Windows editor source code (the .h and .c source listed in step 2) into the 
	C:\CLIPS\EDITOR directory.

4)	Create a project ( IDE_CLPS.PRJ provided ) using the Borland C++ for Windows project editor ( BCW.EXE ). Add all the appropriate files (*.C, *.H, *.RC, *.DEF ).

5)	Select Directories in the Options Menu. Create a path to the include directories C:\BORLANDC\INCLUDE;C:\CLIPS\EDITOR. Create a path to the library directory C:\BORLANDC\LIB. Create a path to the output directory C:\CLIPS.

6)	Set the following compiler options. For Code Generation: Large Memory Model, Assume SS Equals DS (default for memory model), and Duplicate strings merged. For Entry and Exit Code Generation, set Windows smart callbacks. Use the default Optimization Options.

7)	Select the Output Windows EXE linker option. 

8)	Choose Compile and Build All. 
2.8.3 Building an EasyWin version of CLIPS for Windows.
The following steps describe how to create the Windows 3.1 machine specific version of CLIPS using Borland C++ 3.1 and EasyWin

1)	From DOS, Create a directory named C:\CLIPS. 

2)	Create a sub-directory named SOURCE in the CLIPS directory. Copy all of the CLIPS source code into the C:\CLIPS\SOURCE directory.  Copy the clipswin.def and the system.c file from the INTRFACE directory.

3)	Edit the setup.h file. Set the compiler directive flags IBM_TBC to 1, WINDOW_INTERFACE to 0, CLP_EDIT to 0, and BLOCK_MEMORY to 1. 

4)	Create a project (CLIPSCMD.PRJ provided) using the Borland C++ for Windows project editor (BCW.EXE). Add all the appropriate files (*.C, *.H, *.RC, *.DEF ).  Note: Both source and Interface directories contain the file main.c.  Use only the main.c from the SOURCE directory.

6)	Select Directories in the Options Menu. Create a path to the include directories C:\BORLANDC\INCLUDE;C:\CLIPS\SOURCE. Create a path to the library directory C:\BORLANDC\LIB. Create a path to the output directory C:\CLIPS.

7)	Set the following compiler options. For Code Generation: Large Memory Model, Never Assume SS Equals DS, Treat enums as ints, Duplicate strings merged, and Pre-Compiled headers. For Entry and Exit Code Generation, set Windows explicit functions exported. For Advanced Code Generation: Automatic Far Data (Checked) and Far Data Threshold set to 10 Bytes. Use the default Optimization Options.

8)	Select the Output Windows EXE linker option. 
	
9)	Under the Compile Menu Choose Build All. 
2.8.4 Building the CLIPS DOS Executable Using Borland C++ 3.1
The following steps describe how to create the command line executable version of CLIPS using Borland C++ 3.1 for DOS and EasyWin.

1)	From DOS, Create a directory named C:\CLIIPS. 

2)	Create a sub-directory named SOURCE in the CLIPS directory. Copy all of the CLIPS source code into the C:\CLIPS\SOURCE directory (including main.c).  

3)	Edit the setup.h file. Set the compiler directive flags IBM_TBC to 1, WINDOW_INTERFACE to 0, CLP_EDIT to 0, and BLOCK_MEMORY to 1. 
 
4)	Create a project (CLIPS.PRJ provided) using the Borland C++ for Windows project editor (BC.EXE).  Add all the appropriate files (*.C and *.H ).

5)	Select Directories in the Options Menu. Create a path to the include directory CC:\BORLANDC\INCLUDE;C:\CLIPS\SOURCE. Create a path to the library directory C:\BORLANDC\LIB. Create a path to the output directory C:\CLIPS.

6)	Set the following compiler options. For Code Generation: Large Memory Model, Never Assume SS Equals DS, Treat enums as ints, Duplicate strings merged, and Pre-Compiled headers. For Entry and Exit Code Generation, select DOS Standard. For Advanced Code Generation, check Automatic Far Data and set the Far Data Threshold to 10 bytes. Use the default Optimization Options.

7)	Select the Standard DOS EXE linker option. 

8)	Choose Compile and Build All. 

Section 3 - CLIPS Macintosh Interface
This section provides a brief summary of each menu command found in the CLIPS 6.0 Macintosh interface. The menus are listed in the left to right order in which they appear in the menu bar. The commands within each menu are also listed in the order in which they appear in the menu.

The rest of the CLIPS 6.0 Macintosh interface is straightforward, following Macintosh interface standards. Commands can be entered directly in the dialog window in a fashion similar to the standard CLIPS command line interface. The integrated editor is implemented in a fashion similar to that of other Macintosh editors.

Upon startup, CLIPS will look for a text or batch file named "CLIPS Prefs" first in the folder in which CLIPS is contained and second in the system folder. If such a file is found, it will automatically be executed as a batch file. This provides a convenient method for executing a series of command automatically when CLIPS is started.

If rules are not being executed, then execution of the current command or CLIPS program can be halted by holding down the _ key while pressing the period key. If rules are being executed, then rule execution can be interrupted on a rule firing boundary by holding down the _ key while pressing the period key. Holding down the shift key, the _ key, and the period key will halt rule execution after the current RHS action. The Halt menu item can also be selected from the Execution menu during execution. Selecting this menu item is equivalent to holding down the _ key while pressing the period key. If the shift key is held down before clicking in the menu bar, the Halt menu item is changed to the Halt Now! menu item. Selecting this menu item is equivalent to holding down the shift key and the _ key while pressing the period key.

Some menu commands are available while CLIPS is executing a user program. Among these commands are the Options... menu item, the Watch... menu item, the Turn Dribble On.../Turn Dribble Off menu item, and all menu items in Window menu. The command summary for each menu item indicates whether it is available while CLIPS is executing. In addition, windows may be moved and resized while CLIPS is executing.
3.1 THE _ MENU

3.1.1 About CLIPS...
This command displays version information about CLIPS. Click the OK button to continue. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2 THE FILE MENU

3.2.1 New (_N)
This command opens a new buffer for editing with the window name untitled. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.2 Open... (_O)
This command displays the standard file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a text file to be opened as a buffer for editing. More than one file can be opened at the same time, however, the same file cannot be opened more than once. As files are opened, they are automatically stacked. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.3 Load... (_L)
This command displays the standard file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a text file to be loaded into the knowledge base. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (load <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS load command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.4 Load Batch...
This command displays the standard file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a text file to be executed as a batch file. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (batch <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS batch command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.5 Load Binary...
This command displays the standard file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a file to be loaded as a binary image. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (bload <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS bload command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.6 Turn Dribble On...
This command displays the standard file selection dialog box, allowing the user to select a text file in which subsequent display window output will be stored. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (dribble-on <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS dribble-on command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. While the dribble file is active, this menu item will be modified to read Turn Dribble Off. Selecting the menu item at this time will close the dribble text file. The Turn Dribble Off command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (dribble-off). This command is available when CLIPS is executing (however the commands will not be echoed to the dialog window).
3.2.7 Close (_W)
This command closes the active window if it has a go-away box in its upper left corner. If the active window is an editing buffer that has been modified since it was last saved, a dialog box will confirm whether the changes should be saved or discarded or whether the close command should be canceled. This command is available when CLIPS is executing. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.8 Save (_S)
This command saves the file in the active edit window. If the file is untitled, a dialog box will prompt for a file name under which to save the file. The Batch File option in the standard file dialog box determines whether a file is saved as a batch file or a text file. CLIPS batch file documents are executed as a series of commands when launched, whereas CLIPS text file documents are placed in an editing buffer when launched. Both types of documents can be edited as text files in a CLIPS editing buffer. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.9 Save As...
This command allows the active edit window to be saved under a new name. A dialog box will appear to prompt for the new file name. The name of the editing window will be changed to the new file name. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.10 Save Binary...
This command allows the constructs currently stored in CLIPS to be saved as a binary image. A dialog box will appear to prompt for the new file name in which to store the binary image. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (bsave <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS bsave command will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.11 Revert
This command restores the active edit window to the last-saved version of the file in the buffer. Any changes made since the file was last saved will be discarded. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.12 Page Setup...
This command allows the user to specify information about the size of paper used by the printer. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.13 Print...
This command allows the user to print the active edit window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.2.14 Quit (_Q)
This command exits CLIPS. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3 THE EDIT MENU

3.3.1 Undo (_Z)
This command allows you to undo your last editing operation. Typing, cut, copy, paste, and clear operations can all be undone. The Undo menu item will change in the Edit menu to reflect the last operation performed. For example, if a Paste command was just performed, the Undo menu item will read Undo Paste. If the Paste command is undone, the menu item will read Redo Paste. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.2 Cut (_X)
This command removes selected text in the active edit window and places it in the Clipboard. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.3 Copy (_C)
This command copies selected text in the active edit window or the display window and places it in the Clipboard. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.4 Paste (_V)
This command copies the contents of the Clipboard to the selection point in the active edit window or the display window. If selected text is in the active edit window, it is replaced by the contents of the Clipboard. Pasted text to the display window is always placed at the end of the display window regardless of whether there is selected text. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.5 Clear
This command removes selected text in the active edit window. The selected text is not placed in the Clipboard. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.6 Balance (_B)
This command operates on the current selection in the active edit window by attempting to find the smallest selection containing the current selection which has balanced parentheses. Repeatedly using this command will select larger and larger selections of text until a balanced selection cannot be found. The balance command is a purely textual operation and can be confused by parentheses found in strings. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.7 Complete... (_J)
This command "completes" the symbol currently being entered in the display window or the active edit window. In the display window, the symbol to be completed is always the last symbol in the display window (the current selection has no effect). In an edit window, the symbol being completed is the current selection, or if no selection exists, the symbol to the left of the current insertion point. If no possible completions exist, a beep is sounded. If only one possible completion exists (e.g. "deftemplat" for "deftemplate"), then the symbol is automatically completed. If more than one completion exists, a dialog is displayed showing all possible completions (or optionally a beep is sounded-See section 3.3.10). The following dialog shows the possible completions for the symbol "set-s":

Click the OK button to complete the symbol with the current selection. Click the Cancel button to terminate the dialog without any command completion. Note that symbols defined by the user (as part of a construct or a CLIPS data structure such as a fact or instance) will also be listed for command completion. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.8 Set Font...
This command allows the font used in the currently active editing buffer to be changed. When you use this command, the following dialog will appear:



Select a font and font size from the popup menus on the left of the dialog. The sentence at the bottom of the dialog will be displayed using the selected font. Click the OK button to change the font used in the currently active editing buffer. Click the Cancel button to retain the current font setting. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.9 Clear Window
This command clears all of the text in the dialog window. From the CLIPS command prompt, the command clear-window (which takes no arguments) will also clear all of the text in the dialog window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.3.10 Preferences...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set the parameters for several options in the CLIPS Macintosh interface.



The Dancing Panda and Atomic Power radio buttons determine which cursor CLIPS displays when it is busy. The default for this option is Atomic Power. From the CLIPS command prompt, the command set-busy-cursor can be used to select which cursor is used (pass the symbol atomic-power for the atomic power cursor and the symbol dancing-panda for the dancing power cursor). The Enable Professor Joe Warnings option determines whether certain warnings are issued. The default for this option is on. When Professor Joe Warnings are enabled, certain commands chosen from the menu bar will display a dialog box giving the user the option to abort the command. For example, executing a clear command with the Professor Joe feature on will display the following dialog box:



Professor Joe Warnings will only be issued for commands chosen from the menu bar. For example, typing a clear command directly into the dialog window and executing it will not display a warning dialog box regardless of whether Professor Joe Warnings are enabled. From the CLIPS command prompt, the command set-joe-warnings can be used to enable and disable Professor Joe Warnings (pass the symbol TRUE to enable warnings and the symbol FALSE to disable warnings).

The Command Completion Dialog option determines whether a dialog is displayed to determine which completion to use if more than one completion is available. The default for this option is on. That is, a dialog will be displayed whenever there is more than one possible completion. If this option is off, then a beep is sounded when no possible completions exist. From the CLIPS command prompt, the command set-completion-dialog can be used to enable and disable the use of the completion dialog when there is more than one choice (pass the symbol TRUE to enable the completion dialog and the symbol FALSE to disable it). 

The Step Rule Firing Increment option determines how many rules will be executed when the Step command (see Execution menu) is issued. Any integer between 1 and 999 inclusive can be entered for this option. The default value for this option is 1.

 This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.4 THE BUFFER MENU

3.4.1 Find... (_F)
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set parameters for text search and replacement operations. The dialog box that appears allows a search and replacement string to be specified.


Two other options can be set in the search dialog box. The Match Words option will only allow a string search to match whole words; that is, the string "at" would not be bound in the string "match". The default for this setting is off. The Ignore Case option makes the string search operation case-insensitive for alphabetic characters; that is, the string "Upper" will match the string "uPPER". The default for this setting is on.

Once search options have been set, one of three search dialog buttons can be pressed. The Find button will search for the first occurrence of the Search For string in the active edit window starting at the end of the current selection and preceding to the end of the buffer. The Don't Find button saves the search and replace strings and options but does not initiate a search. The Cancel button aborts the find command. The search and replace strings and options are restored to the values they had before the dialog box was entered.

This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.4.2 Find Again (_G)
This command searches for the next occurrence of the Search For string starting at the end of the current selection and preceding to the end of the buffer. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.4.3 Replace (_H)
This command will replace the current selection in the active edit window with the Replace With string. If no selection exists, the Replace With string will be inserted at the current insertion point in the active edit window. The Replace With string may be left empty to replace text with nothing. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.4.4 Replace and Find Again (_D)
This command is equivalent to executing a Replace command followed by a Find Again command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.4.5 Replace All
This command is equivalent to executing a Find Again command followed by a Replace command repeatedly until the Find Again command does not find the Search For string. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.4.6 Load Selection (_K)
This command loads the current selection in the active edit window into the CLIPS knowledge base. Standard error detection and recovery routines used to load constructs from a file are also used when loading a selection (i.e., if a construct has an error in it, the rest of the construct will be skipped over until another construct to be loaded is found). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.4.7 Batch Selection (_M)
This command treats the current selection in the active edit window as if it were a batch file and executes it as a series of commands. Standard error detection and recovery routines used to load construct from a file are not used when batching a selection (i.e., if a construct has an error in it, a number of ancillary errors may be generated by subsequent parts of the same construct following the error). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.4.8 Load Buffer
This command loads the contents of the active edit window into the CLIPS knowledge base. It is equivalent to selecting the entire buffer and executing a Load Selection command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.5 THE EXECUTION MENU

3.5.1 Reset (_E)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (reset). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (reset) will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. If Professor Joe Warnings are enabled and activations are currently on the agenda, a dialog box will appear issuing a warning and providing an opportunity to cancel this command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.5.2 Run (_R)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (run). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (run) will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. During execution, this menu command is changed to Halt and can be selected to halt execution (as if a command period had been entered). Holding the shift key down while selecting this menu item is equivalent to entering command-shift-period. For an explanation of the different methods of halting execution refer to the introduction at the beginning of this section.
3.5.3 Step (_T)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (run <limit>) where <limit> is the value for the Step Rule Firing Increment. (it is set using the Options... command under the Edit menu). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (run <limit>) will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. If the default value for the Step Rule Firing Increment is used, this command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (run 1). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.5.4 Watch...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set various watch items as enabled or disabled.

Watch items can be enabled or disabled by clicking the appropriate check box. Enabled watch items have a check in their check box. Disabled watch items have no check mark in their check box. Pressing the All button checks all of the watch item check boxes. Pressing the None button unchecks all of the watch item check boxes. Clicking the OK button exits the dialog and changes the current watch settings to those shown in the dialog. Clicking the Cancel button exits the dialog, but retains the original settings of the watch items before the dialog was entered.

This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.5.5 Options...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set various CLIPS execution options.

The Salience Evaluation pop-up menu allows the current salience evaluation behavior to be changed (to either when-defined, when-activated, or every-cycle). The Strategy pop-up menu allows the current conflict resolution strategy to be changed (to either depth, breadth, lex, mea, complexity, simplicity, or random). The Static Constraint Checking, Dynamic Constraint Checking, Reset Global Variables, Sequence Expansion Operator Recognition, Incremental Reset, Auto-Float Dividend, and Fact Duplication check boxes are used to enable and disable the named CLIPS option. Enabled options have a check in their check box while disabled items have none. The Incremental Reset option cannot be changed if any defrules are currently defined. Clicking the OK button exits the dialog and changes the CLIPS execution options settings to those shown in the dialog. Clicking the Cancel button exits the dialog, but retains the original settings of the CLIPS execution options before the dialog was entered.

This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.5.6 Clear CLIPS
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (clear). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (clear) will be echoed to the dialog window and executed. If Professor Joe Warnings are enabled, a dialog box will appear issuing a warning and providing an opportunity to cancel this command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.6 THE BROWSE MENU

3.6.1 The Module Menu


This menu displays a list of the defmodules currently defined in the CLIPS environment. A check mark is displayed by the current module. Selecting a module from the menu list changes the current module to the selected item.
3.6.2 Defrule Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defrules in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defrule selected from the list of defrules currently in the knowledge base.


The Remove button will remove the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to issuing an undefrule command. The Refresh button will refresh the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a refresh command. The Matches command will list the matches for the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a matches command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefrule command. Both the Matches and Pprint buttons echo the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Breakpoint check box is used to enable or disable a breakpoint on the currently selected defrule. Rules with a breakpoint set have a check in their check box while rules without a breakpoint have none. The Watch Activations check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a rule is activated or deactivated. If the check box for a rule is checked, then activation/deactivation messages for the rule will be printed. The Watch Firings check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a rule is executed. If the check box for a rule is checked, then execution messages for the rule will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defrule Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.6.3 Deffacts Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deffacts in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deffacts selected from the list of deffacts currently in the knowledge base.



The Remove button will remove the currently selected deffacts. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeffacts command The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deffacts. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeffacts command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deffacts Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.6.4 Deftemplate Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deftemplates in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deftemplate selected from the list of deftemplates currently in the knowledge base.



The Remove button will remove the currently selected deftemplate. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeftemplate command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deftemplate. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeftemplate command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed whenever a fact is asserted or retracted. If the check box for a deftemplate is checked, then assert/retract messages for facts associated with the deftemplate will be printed. 

 Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deftemplate Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.6.5 Deffunction Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deffunctions in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deffunction selected from the list of deffunctions currently in the knowledge base.



The Remove button will remove the currently selected deffunction. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeffunction command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deffunction. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeffunction command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a deffunction begins and ends execution. If the check box for a deffunction is checked, then execution messages for the deffunction will be printed. 

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deffunction Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.6.6 Defglobal Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defglobals in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defglobal selected from the list of defglobals currently in the knowledge base.



The Remove button will remove the currently selected defglobal. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefglobal command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defglobal. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefglobal command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when the value of a global variable is changed. If the check box for a defglobal is checked, then value change messages will be printed. 

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defglobal Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.6.7 Defgeneric Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defgenerics in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defgeneric selected from the list of defgenerics currently in the knowledge base. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defgeneric Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.



The Remove button will remove the currently selected defgeneric. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefgeneric command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defgeneric. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefgeneric command.  The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a generic function begins and ends execution. If the check box for a deffunction is checked, then execution messages for the generic function will be printed.

The Methods... button displays a dialog box allowing the defmethods for the currently selected defgeneric to be browsed. The dialog box that appears in response to this button allows an operation to be performed on a defmethod selected from the list of defmethods currently in the knowledge base.



The Remove button will remove the currently selected defmethod. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefmethod command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defmethod. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefmethod command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a specific method of a generic function begins and ends execution. If the check box for a defmethod is checked, then execution messages for the method will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to return control to the Defgeneric Manager dialog box.
3.6.8 Defclass Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defclasses in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defclass selected from the list of defclasses currently in the knowledge base. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defclass Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.


The Remove button will remove the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefclass command. The Describe button will describe the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a describe-class command. The Browse command displays the class hierarchy for the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a browse-class command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefclass command. The Describe, Browse, and Pprint buttons echo the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.  

The Watch Instances check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when an instance is created or deleted. If the check box for a defclass is checked, then messages will be printed whenever an instance of that class is created or deleted. The Watch Slots check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when an instance's slot values are changed. If the check box for a defclass is checked, then messages will be printed whenever an instance of that class has a slot value changed.

The Message Handlers... button displays a dialog box allowing the message handlers for the currently selected class to be browsed. The dialog box that appears in response to this button allows an operation to be performed on a defmessage-handler selected from the list of defmessage-handlers currently in the knowledge base.


The Remove button will remove the currently selected defmessage-handler. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefmessage-handler command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defmessage-handler. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefmessage-handler command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a message-handler begins and ends execution. If the check box for a defmessage-handler is checked, then execution messages for the message-handler will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to return control to the Defclass Manager dialog box.
3.6.9 Definstances Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the definstances in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a definstances selected from the list of definstances currently in the knowledge base. 



The Remove button will remove the currently selected definstances. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefinstances command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected definstances. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefinstances command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Definstances Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.6.10 Agenda Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the activations on the agenda to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows any activation on the agenda to be removed or fired.



The Remove button will remove the currently selected activation from the agenda. The Fire button will place the currently selected activation at the top of the agenda (regardless of its salience). The dialog is then exited and the CLIPS command (run 1) will then be echoed to the Dialog Window, causing the activation to fire. Any number of remove operations (except the Fire button) can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Agenda Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
3.7 THE WINDOW MENU

3.7.1 Dialog Window
This command selects the Dialog Window and brings it to the front. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is the frontmost window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.7.2 Facts Window
This command selects the Facts Window and brings it to the front. If the Facts Window does not exist, it will be created. The Facts Window displays the list of facts in the fact-list. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is the frontmost window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.7.3 Agenda Window
This command selects the Agenda Window and brings it to the front. If the Agenda Window does not exist, it will be created. The Agenda Window displays the list of activations currently on the agenda. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is the frontmost window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.7.4 Instances Window
This command selects the Instances Window and brings it to the front. If the Instances Window does not exist, it will be created. The Instances Window displays the list of existing instances and their slot values. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is the frontmost window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.7.5 Globals Window
This command selects the Globals Window and brings it to the front. If the Globals Window does not exist, it will be created. The Globals Window displays the list of global variables and their current values. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is the frontmost window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.7.6 Focus Window
This command selects the Focus Window and brings it to the front. If the Focus Window does not exist, it will be created. The Focus Window displays the current focus stack. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is the frontmost window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.7.7 All Above
This command brings the Dialog Window, Facts Window, Instances Window, Globals Window, and Focus Window in front of all other windows (creating them if they do not already exist). The Dialog Window is selected as the active window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.7.8 Titled and Untitled Edit Windows
This command brings the selected edit window to the front. All edit windows appear below the dotted line in the menu. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is the frontmost window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
3.8 CREATING THE MACINTOSH EXECUTABLES
The following four subsections describe how to create generic CLIPS and Macintosh CLIPS interface executables on the Macintosh using the THINK C v5.0 compiler and MPW 3.2 C. Note that some familiarity with building applications using THINK C and MPW C is assumed. Section 2 of the Advanced Programming Guide (which describes in general how to install and tailor CLIPS) should also be read before attempting to build the Macintosh executables.
3.8.1 Building the CLIPS Generic Executable Using THINK C
The following steps describe how to create the generic executable version of CLIPS using THINK C v5.0:

1)	Create a folder named THINK C CLIPS. Place the file CLIPS 6.0G._ (included on the CLIPS Macintosh distribution disks) into this folder.

2)	Create a folder named CLIPS Source and place it in the THINK C CLIPS folder. Copy all of the CLIPS source code (excluding the source code for the machine specific interfaces) into the CLIPS Source folder.

3)	Launch the THINK C application by double clicking on the CLIPS 6.0G._ file.

4)	Edit the setup.h file. Set the compiler directive flags MAC_MPW to 0 and WINDOW_INTERFACE to 0. Set the compiler directive flag MAC_TC to 1.
 
5)	Select Build Application... in the Project menu and save the executable version under the desired name and location (the default name for the executable is CLIPS 6.0G).
3.8.2 Building the CLIPS Interface Executable Using THINK C
The following steps describe how to create the Macintosh machine specific version of CLIPS using THINK C v5.0: 

1)	The following source files are needed to build the interface in addition to the source files for the standard CLIPS executable:
 
alpha.h
clipsmnu.h
clipsstw.h
common.h
cooldlog.h
displayw.h
dlogmngr.h
editdlog.h
editmenu.h
editw.h
execdlog.h
factdlog.h
filemenu.h
fontpick.h
gnrcdlog.h
interface.h
macinit.h
mainloop.h
menucmds.h
menuhndl.h
prcddlog.h
print.h
ruledlog.h
scrap.h
search.h
statusw.h
stnrdmac.h
undo.h
window.h




alpha.c
clipsmnu.c
clipsstw.c
cooldlog.c
displayw.c
dlogmngr.c
editdlog.c
editmenu.c
editw.c
execdlog.c
factdlog.c
filemenu.c
fontpick.c
gnrcdlog.c
macfuncs.c
macinit.c
macmain.c
mainloop.c
menucmds.c
menuhndl.c
prcddlog.c
print.c
ruledlog.c
scrap.c
search.c
statusw.c
stnrdmac.c
undo.c
window.c




CLIPS 6.0._.Rsrc




2)	Create a folder named THINK C CLIPS. Place the files CLIPS 6.0._ and CLIPS 6.0._.Rsrc (included on the CLIPS Macintosh distribution disks) into this folder.

3)	Create a folder named CLIPS Source and place it in the THINK C CLIPS folder. Copy all of the CLIPS source code into the CLIPS Source folder. Copy all of the Macintosh interface source code (the .h and .c source listed in step 1) into the CLIPS Source folder.

4)	Launch the THINK C application by double clicking on the CLIPS 6.0._ file.

5)	Edit the setup.h file. Set the compiler directive flags MAC_MPW to 0 and WINDOW_INTERFACE to 1. Set the compiler directive flag  MAC_TC to 1. 
 
6)	Select Build Application... in the Project menu and save the executable version under the desired name and location (the default name for the executable is CLIPS 6.0).
3.8.3 Building the CLIPS Generic Executable Using MPW C
The following steps describe how to create the generic executable version of CLIPS using MPW 3.2 C with the version 7.0 Toolbox Interfaces and Libraries:

1)	Create a folder named MPW CLIPS. Place the file CLIPS 6.0G.make (included on the CLIPS Macintosh distribution disks) into this folder.

2)	Create a folder named CLIPS Source and place it in the MPW CLIPS folder. Copy all of the CLIPS source code (excluding the source code for the machine specific interfaces) into the CLIPS Source folder.

3)	Launch the MPW application. 

4)	Edit the setup.h file. Set the compiler directive flag MAC_MPW to 1. Set the compiler directive flags WINDOW_INTERFACE and MAC_TC to 0.
 
5)	Select Set Directory... from the MPW Directory menu and select the MPW CLIPS folder from the resulting dialog.

6)	Select Build... from the MPW Build menu and enter CLIPS 6.0G in response to the resulting dialog. Once the build process is complete, the executable file CLIPS 6.0G will be stored in the MPW CLIPS folder.
3.8.4 Building the CLIPS Interface Executable Using MPW C
The following steps describe how to create the Macintosh machine specific version of CLIPS using MPW 3.2 C with the version 7.0 Toolbox Interfaces and Libraries:

1)	Create a folder named MPW CLIPS. Place the files CLIPS 6.0.make and CLIPS 6.0.r (included on the CLIPS Macintosh distribution disks) into this folder.

2)	Create a folder named CLIPS Source and place it in the MPW CLIPS folder. Copy all of the CLIPS source code into the CLIPS Source folder. Copy all of the Macintosh interface source code (the .h and .c source listed in step 1 of section 6.8.2) into the CLIPS Source folder. The file CLIPS6.0.Rsrc is not needed.

3)	Launch the MPW application. 

4)	Edit the setup.h file. Set the compiler directive flags MAC_MPW and WINDOW_INTERFACE to 1. Set the compiler directive flag MAC_TC to 0.
 
5)	Select Set Directory... from the MPW Directory menu and select the MPW CLIPS folder from the resulting dialog.

6)	Select Build... from the MPW Build menu and enter CLIPS 6.0 in response to the resulting dialog. Once the build process is complete, the executable file CLIPS 6.0 will be stored in the MPW CLIPS folder.


Section 4 - CLIPS X Window Interface
This section provides a brief summary of the CLIPS 6.0 X Window interface (xclips) for the SUN workstation. The menus are listed in the left to right order in which they appear in the menu bar. The commands within each menu are also listed in the order in which they appear in the menu.

The rest of the xclips is straightforward. Commands can be entered directly in the dialog window in a fashion similar to the standard CLIPS command line interface.

By default, xclips is black and white. A resource file, Xclips, is provided to add color to the interface. By default X will look for this resource file in the user's home directory. A user can modify his or her resource file if he or she wishes; however, it could be more convenient if he or she uses the provided color utility, color. The color utility has to be in the same directory with xclips, so it could be executed by xclips (see section 4.5.8).

The execution of the current command or CLIPS program can be halted by pressing Ctrl-H

Some menu commands are available while CLIPS is executing a user program. Among these commands are the Options... menu item, the Watch... menu item, the Dribble... menu item, and all menu items in Window menu. The command summary for each menu item indicates whether it is available while CLIPS is executing. In addition, windows may be moved and resized while CLIPS is executing.
4.1 THE  MENU
This command displays version information about CLIPS. Click the left mouse button in this window to kill it. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.2 THE FILE MENU

4.2.1 Edit... (^V)
This command displays a file selection box, allowing the user to select a text file to edit. A new window will be opened for each file (see section 4.6 for more details). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.2.2 Complete... (^C)
This command "completes" the symbol currently being entered in the display window. The symbol to be completed is always the last symbol in the display window. If no possible completions exist, a beep is sounded. If only one possible completion exists (e.g. "deftemplat" for "deftemplate"), then the symbol is automatically completed. If more than one completion exists, a dialog is displayed showing all possible completions. The following dialog shows the possible completions for the symbol "get":

Click the Select button to complete the symbol with the current selection. Click the Cancel button to terminate the dialog without any command completion. Note that symbols defined by the user (as part of a construct or a CLIPS data structure such as a fact or instance) will also be listed for command completion. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.2.3 Load... (^L)
This command displays a file selection box, allowing the user to select a text file to be loaded into the knowledge base. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (load <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS load command will be echoed to the main window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.2.4 Load Batch... 
This command displays a file selection box, allowing the user to select a text file to be executed as a batch file. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (batch <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS batch command will be echoed to the main window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.2.5 Load Binary...
This command displays a file selection box, allowing the user to select a file to be loaded as a binary image. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (bload <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS bload command will be echoed to the main window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.2.6 Dribble... (^N)
This command displays a file selection box, allowing the user to select a text file in which subsequent display window output will be stored. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (dribble-on <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is selected, the appropriate CLIPS dribble-on command will be echoed to the main window and executed. While the dribble file is active, this menu command will be modified to contain an X Window logo in the left margin beside the command. Selecting the menu command at this time will close the dribble text file and remove the X Window logo. This is equivalent to the CLIPS command (dribble-off). This command is available when CLIPS is executing (however the commands will not be echoed to the dialog window).
4.2.7 Save Binary... 
This command allows the constructs currently stored in CLIPS to be saved as a binary image. A dialog box will appear to prompt for the new file name in which to store the binary image. This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (bsave <file-name>). When this command is chosen and a file is entered, the appropriate CLIPS bsave command will be echoed to the main window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.2.8 Quit (^Q)
This command exits CLIPS. After choosing this command a Restart option is prompted. This option will restart CLIPS using any new color resources created by the color utility (see section 4.5.8). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.3 THE EXECUTION MENU

4.3.1 Reset (^E)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (reset). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (reset) will be echoed to the main window and executed. If activations are currently on the agenda, a dialog box will appear issuing a warning and providing an opportunity to cancel this command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.3.2 Run (^R)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (run). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (run) will be echoed to the main window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.3.3 Step (^T)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (run 1). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (run 1) will be echoed to the main window and executed. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.3.4 Watch...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set various watch items as enabled or disabled.

Watch items can be enabled or disabled by clicking its check box. Enabled watch items have a check in their check box. Disabled watch items have no check mark in their check box. Pressing the All button checks all of the watch item check boxes. Pressing the None button unchecks all of the watch item check boxes. Clicking the Okay button exits the dialog and changes the current watch settings to those shown in the dialog. Clicking the Cancel button exits the dialog, but retains the original settings of the watch items before the dialog was entered.

This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.3.5 Options...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the user to set various CLIPS execution options.

The Salience Evaluation pop-up menu allows the current salience evaluation behavior to be changed (to either when-defined, when-activated, or every-cycle). The Strategy pop-up menu allows the current conflict resolution strategy to be changed (to either depth, breadth, lex, mea, complexity, simplicity, or random). The Static Constraint Checking, Dynamic Constraint Checking, Reset Global Variables, Sequence Expansion Operator Recognition, Incremental Reset, Auto-Float Dividend, and Fact Duplication check boxes are used to enable and disable the named CLIPS option. Enabled options have a check in their check box while disabled items have none. The Incremental Reset option cannot be changed if any defrules are currently defined. Clicking the OK button exits the dialog and changes the CLIPS execution options settings to those shown in the dialog. Clicking the Cancel button exits the dialog, but retains the original settings of the CLIPS execution options before the dialog was entered.

This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.3.6 Clear CLIPS (^K)
This command is equivalent to the CLIPS command (clear). When this command is chosen, the CLIPS command (clear) will be echoed to the main window and executed. A dialog box will appear issuing a warning and providing an opportunity to cancel this command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.3.7 Clear Window (^N)
This command clears the dialog window. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.4 THE BROWSE MENU

4.4.1 Module Menu
This menu displays a dialog box which contains the list of the defmodules currently defined in the CLIPS environment. A current module is hilighted. Selecting a module from the list changes the current module to the selected item. 

When finish selecting the module click the Done button to remove the dialog.
4.4.2 Defrule Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defrules in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defrule selected from the list of defrules currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to issuing an undefrule command. The Refresh button will refresh the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a refresh command. The Matches command will list the matches for the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a matches command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defrule. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefrule command. Both the Matches and Pprint buttons echo the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Breakpoint check box is used to enable or disable a breakpoint on the currently selected defrule. Rules with a breakpoint set have a check in their check box while rules without a breakpoint have none. The Watch Activations check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a rule is activated or deactivated. If the check box for a rule is checked, then activation/deactivation messages for the rule will be printed. The Watch Firings check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a rule is executed. If the check box for a rule is checked, then execution messages for the rule will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defrule Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.4.3 Deffacts Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deffacts in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deffacts selected from the list of deffacts currently in the knowledge base.


The Remove button will remove the currently selected deffacts. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeffacts command The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deffacts. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeffacts command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deffacts Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.4.4 Deftemplate Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deftemplates in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deftemplate selected from the list of deftemplates currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected deftemplate. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeftemplate command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deftemplate. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeftemplate command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed whenever a fact is asserted or retracted. If the check box for a deftemplate is checked, then assert/retract messages for facts associated with the deftemplate will be printed. 

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deftemplate Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.4.5 Deffunction Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the deffunctions in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a deffunction selected from the list of deffunctions currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected deffunction. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undeffunction command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deffunction. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdeffunction command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a deffunction begins and ends execution. If the check box for a deffunction is checked, then execution messages for the deffunction will be printed. 

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Deffunction Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.4.6 Defglobal Manager
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defglobals in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defglobal selected from the list of defglobals currently in the knowledge base. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defglobal Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defglobal. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefglobal command The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected deffacts. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefglobal command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defglobal Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.4.7 Defgeneric Manager
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defgenerics in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defgeneric selected from the list of defgenerics currently in the knowledge base. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defgeneric Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defgeneric. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefgeneric command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defgeneric. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefgeneric command.  The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a generic function begins and ends execution. If the check box for a deffunction is checked, then execution messages for the generic function will be printed.

The Methods... button displays a dialog box allowing the defmethods for the currently selected defgeneric to be browsed. The dialog box that appears in response to this button allows an operation to be performed on a defmethod selected from the list of defmethods currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defmethod. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefmethod command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defmethod. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefmethod command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a specific method of a generic function begins and ends execution. If the check box for a defmethod is checked, then execution messages for the method will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to return control to the Defgeneric Manager dialog box.
4.4.8 Defclass Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the defclasses in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a defclass selected from the list of defclasses currently in the knowledge base. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Defclass Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefclass command. The Describe button will describe the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a describe-class command. The Browse command displays the class hierarchy for the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a browse-class command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defclass. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefclass command. The Describe, Browse, and Pprint buttons echo the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.  

The Watch Instances check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when an instance is created or deleted. If the check box for a defclass is checked, then messages will be printed whenever an instance of that class is created or deleted. The Watch Slots check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when an instance's slot values are changed. If the check box for a defclass is checked, then messages will be printed whenever an instance of that class has a slot value changed.

The Message Handlers... button displays a dialog box allowing the message handlers for the currently selected class to be browsed. The dialog box that appears in response to this button allows an operation to be performed on a defmessage-handler selected from the list of defmessage-handlers currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected defmessage-handler. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefmessage-handler command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected defmessage-handler. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefmessage-handler command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window.

The Watch check box is used to enable or disable the messages that are printed when a message-handler begins and ends execution. If the check box for a defmessage-handler is checked, then execution messages for the message-handler will be printed.

Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to return control to the Defclass Manager dialog box.
4.4.9 Definstances Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the definstances in the knowledge base to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows an operation to be performed on a definstances selected from the list of definstances currently in the knowledge base.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected definstances. Pressing this button is equivalent to an undefinstances command. The Pprint button will pretty print the currently selected definstances. Pressing this button is equivalent to a ppdefinstances command. The Pprint button echoes the equivalent CLIPS command and resulting output to the dialog window. Any number of operations can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Definstances Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.4.10 Agenda Manager...
This command displays a dialog box which allows the activations on the agenda to be examined. The dialog box that appears in response to this command allows any activation on the agenda to be removed or fired.

The Remove button will remove the currently selected activation from the agenda. The Fire button will place the currently selected activation at the top of the agenda (regardless of its salience). The dialog is then exited and the CLIPS command (run 1) will then be echoed to the Dialog Window, causing the activation to fire. Any number of remove operations (except the Fire button) can be executed from this dialog. When finished, click the Done button to remove the dialog. The Agenda Manager... command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5 THE WINDOW MENU

4.5.1 Facts Window 
This command creates or deletes the Facts Window. The Facts Window displays the list of facts in the fact-list. An X Window logo is placed by the window name to indicated that it exists. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5.2 Agenda Window 
This command creates or deletes the Agenda Window. The Agenda Window displays the list of activations currently on the agenda. An X Window logo is placed by the window name to indicated that it exists. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5.3 Instances Window
This command creates or deletes the Instances Window. The Instances Window displays the list of existing instances and their slot values. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it exists. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5.4 Globals Window
This command creates or deletes the Globals Window. The Globals Window displays the list of global variables and their current values. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it exists. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5.5 Focus Window
This command selects the Focus Window and brings it to the front. If the Focus Window does not exist, it will be created. The Focus Window displays the current focus stack. A check mark is placed by the window name to indicated that it is the frontmost window. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5.6 All 
This command creates the Dialog Window, Facts Window, Instances Window, and Globals Window if they do not already exist. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5.7 None
This command deletes the Dialog Window, Facts Window, Instances Window, and Globals Window if they exist. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5.8 Command Line CLIPS (^Z)
This command creates a xterm window and starts a command line version of CLIPS. This window will still exist after the xclips interface has ended. This command is available when CLIPS is executing.
4.5.9 Color Utility
This command will execute the color utility for the xclips interface. To use the new colors the Quit command with the Restart (see section 4.2.9) option must be chosen.
4.5.9.1 How To Use The Color Utility
To change the colors of a window in the X Window interface for CLIPS, the user must:
1)	Select the appropriate button for the window at the bottom of the color utility.
2)	Select the item that needs to be changed at the top of the color utility.
3)	Select the color that is listed on the left of the color utility. 

The instant visual changes on the window will help the user to decide which colors he/she likes best. There are 14 different buttons at the bottom of the color utility that the user can select. They are listed as follows:

Dialog Window: The main interactive window that accepts input from users and prints out output from CLIPS.

Facts Window: The fact window that contains all the facts in the fact base.

Instance Window: The instance window that contains all the instances.

Globals: The global window that contains all the global variables and their values.

Agenda Window: The agenda window that contains all the activated rules.

Focus Window: The focus window that contains all the modules in the stack.

Button Box: The box that contains all the top level menu buttons. Only the background color can be changed here.

Menu Buttons: All the top level menu buttons.

Pulldown Menus: All the pulldown menus.

Managers: All the defconstruct manager windows (under the Browse menu).

Managers Button: There are regular buttons and a Cancel button, which the user can modify their colors, in a manager window. Their foreground color and their border color will always be the same.

Confirmation: The confirmation dialog box.

File: The file selection window which popups when the name of a file is needed.

Watch/Options: The windows that allow the user to select the watched items and the options (created using the Watch and Options menu items).

Wtch/Opt Bttns : Toggle buttons and command buttons in the Watch or Options menu items.

On the top of the color utility there are five buttons the user can select, Foreground, Background, Border, Default, Quit. When the foreground and border colors are not allowed to change, the label of the Foreground and Border buttons will change to N/A or to something else that appropriate for the current selected button at the bottom of the color utility. Clicking on Default will give the user the default colors. When the user is happy with his/her selections and wants to save them, she/he can click on Save and Quit under the Quit menu. Selecting Save and Quit instructs the color utility to save the current color resource setting in the file Xclips which must reside in the user's home directory.
4.6 THE EDITOR
This section provides a brief summary for the editor interface. The editor is an instance of the Athena asciiText widget, which comes with X and is similar to the emacs editor.
4.6.1 File

4.6.1.1 Save
This command displays a dialog box allowing the user to overwrite the old file with the edited file or cancel the save command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.1.2 Save As
This command allows the edit window to be saved under a new name. A dialog box will appear to prompt for the new file name. The name of the editing window will be changed to the new file name. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.1.3 Revert
This command restores the edit window to the last saved version of the file in the buffer. Any changes made since the file was last saved will be discarded. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.1.4 Load Selection
This command loads the current selection in the active edit window into the CLIPS knowledge base. Standard error detection and recovery routines used to load constructs from a file are also used when loading a selection (i.e., if a construct has an error in it, the rest of the construct will be skipped over until another construct to be loaded is found). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.1.5 Batch Selection
This command treats the current selection in the active edit window as if it were a batch file and executes it as a series of commands. Standard error detection and recovery routines used to load construct from a file are not used when batching a selection (i.e., if a construct has an error in it, a number of ancillary errors may be generated by subsequent parts of the same construct following the error). This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.1.6 Load Buffer
This command loads the contents of the active edit window into the CLIPS knowledge base. It is equivalent to selecting the entire buffer and executing a Load Selection command. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.1.7 Exit
This command exits the editor. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.2 Edit

4.6.2.3 Complete... (^C)
This command "completes" the symbol currently being entered in the active edit window. The symbol being completed is the current selection, or if no selection exists, the symbol to the left of the current insertion point. If no possible completions exist, a beep is sounded. If only one possible completion exists (e.g. "deftemplat" for "deftemplate"), then the symbol is automatically completed. If more than one completion exists, a dialog is displayed showing all possible completions. The following dialog shows the possible completions for the symbol "get":

Click the Select button to complete the symbol with the current selection. Click the Cancel button to be terminate the dialog without any command completion. Note that symbols defined by the user (as part of a construct or a CLIPS data structure such as a fact or instance) will also be listed for command completion. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.2.2 Cut
This command removes selected text in the active edit window and places it in the Clipboard. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.2.3 Paste
This command copies the contents of the Clipboard to the selection point in the edit window. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.2.4 Search/Replace... (^S/^R)
This command displays the search/replace dialog allowing the user to search for a string or search for a string and replace it with another string. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.2.5 Balance (^B)
This command operates on the current selection in the active edit window by attempting to find the smallest selection containing the current selection which has balanced parentheses. Repeatedly using this command will select larger and larger selections of text until a balanced selection cannot be found. The balance command is a purely textual operation and can be confused by parentheses found in strings. The cursor has to be placed to the left of the parenthesis. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.2.6 Beginning of File
This command will scroll the insertion point to the beginning of the editor file and then scroll the minimum amount necessary to make the new insert point location visible. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.2.7 End of File
This command will scroll the insertion point to the end of the editor file and then scroll the minimum amount necessary to make the new insert point location visible. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.3 Font

4.6.3.1 5x8
This command will set the editor font to 5x8. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.3.2 6x10
This command will set the editor font to 6x10. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.3.3 6x13bold
This command will set the editor font to 6x13bold. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.3.4 7x13bold
This command will set the editor font to 7x13bold. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.3.5 8x13bold
This command will set the editor font to 8x13bold. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.3.6 9x15bold
This command will set the editor font to 9x15bold. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.3.7 10x20
This command will set the editor font to 10x20. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.3.8 12x24
This command will set the editor font to 12x20. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.6.4 Help

4.6.4.1 Key Bindings
This command displays a list of all key bindings available for the editor. This command is not available when CLIPS is executing.
4.7 BUILDING THE CLIPS X WINDOW INTERFACE
The following steps describe how to create the X Window machine specific version of CLIPS. This version of the CLIPS X Window interface requires X Window system release 11.4 and has been tested on Sun-3 and Sun-4 Workstations and Sun Sparcstations. Note that some familiarity with building applications using C compilers in a UNIX environment is assumed. Section 2 of the Advanced Programming Guide (which describes in general how to install and tailor CLIPS) should also be read before attempting to build the X Window executables.

1)	The following source files are needed to build the interface in addition to the source files for the standard CLIPS executable:
 
xclips.h
xedit.h
xmain.h
xmenu.h
xmenu_wind.h
xsetup.h






xclips.c
xclipstext.c
xedit.c
xmain.c
xmenu.c
xmenu_exec.c
xmenu_file.c
xmenu_opt.c
xmenu_watch.c
xmenu_wind.c






Xclips




	The file Xclips is a resource file that must reside in the user's home directory in order for the X Window interface to appear in color. If this file cannot be found, the X Window interface will appear in black and white.

2)	The compiler directive flags UNIX_7 and WINDOW_INTERFACE in the file setup.h should be set to 1. The compiler directive flag CLP_EDIT in the file setup.h should be set to 0.

3)  The X Window system interface version of CLIPS can be created by compiling all the standard CLIPS .c files and the .c files listed in step 1. The file xmain.c replaces the file main.c used in the standard CLIPS (and thus main.c should not be compiled). The resulting object files should then be linked with the following libraries: Xaw, Xmu, Xt, Xext, X11, m. An example UNIX command for compiling xclips is shown following: 

	cc -o xclips *.c -lXaw -lXmu -lXt -lXext -X11 -lm 

4)	The color utility is a stand alone application. The source code files for this application are color.c, default.h, and colors.h. The executable version of the color utility can be generated by compiling color.c and linking it with the following libraries: Xaw, Xmu, Xt, Xext, X11. An example UNIX command for compiling the color utility is shown following:

	cc -o color color.c -lXaw -lXmu -lXt -lXext -X11 

	JSC-25012

CLIPS Reference Manual

	JSC-25012

vi
Table of Contents


CLIPS Interfaces Guide
ix


	JSC-25012

x
Preface


	JSC-25012

CLIPS Interfaces Guide
xi


CLIPS Reference Manual

	JSC-25012

xii
Section 4 - CRSV Macintosh Interface


CLIPS Interfaces Guide
13


CLIPS Reference Manual

	JSC-25012

50
Section 2 - CLIPS Windows Interface


CLIPS Interfaces Guide
49


CLIPS Reference Manual

	JSC-25012


Section 3 - CLIPS Macintosh Interface


CLIPS Interfaces Guide



	JSC-25012


Section 4 - CLIPS X Window Interface


CLIPS Interfaces Guide




