
INTRODUCTION

The Amiga has always been the machine for technically minded users. I am
amazed at the technical prowess and ingenuity of some Amiga users. It is
not uncommon to hear of people with half a dozen machines (of various
vintages) stripped down and penned up like battery hens churning out Ray
Traced images. This sort of pioneering spirit often scorns fancy cases
and expensive packaging - and more likely they can't afford it. Let's
face it, in these dark recessionary days it is hard to justify more than
$100 or so for peripherals for a $500 Amiga.

For some time now I have been interested in the concept of Public Domain
software and Shareware. The quality and range of PD has improved
markedly over the years - to the point where almost any software can be
obtained from the Public Domain - and it actually works well. The Amiga
has a huge PD base - in fact you might say that it keeps the machine
afloat. At present the trends in hardware and software seem to be
diverging. For example, the current state of the art for Amigas is 24
bit colour and desktop video. The hardware to do this is getting more
and more complex and out of reach, while the software is diverse and
readily available through the Public Domain. Why is it so?

Hardware companies have a tough life - heavy R&D costs to get a product
developed followed by an incredibly expensive advertising campaign to
get it recognised. There are often casualities in this primitive
struggle for marketshare. Good products fall by the wayside and users
end up with unsupported products after the manufacturer has folded his
tent. The result of this is that we get a hardware market dominated by a
couple of BIG companies surrounded by a gurgle of strugglers. The big
companies invariably seem to contract IBM disease - they adopt a three
letter name and become conservative. What we tend to get from IBM
Syndrome companies are polished, safe and expensive designs. Corporate
style often manages to stifle innovation. Look at Apple - from spunky
garage company to hopping in the sack with IBM.

The microcomputer industry was originally spawned in a world dominated
by Big Business corporate style. Thus, any startup company that was
successful began to resemble a Big Business and behave like a Big
Business. Think of any major hardware or software house and you will see
this transformation.  As a result the marketplace ends up consisting of
a couple of heavyweights slugging it out with glossy ads, incremental
improvements and mischievious litigation. This whole corporate process
leads to a reduction in innovation and technological diversity - not to
mention inflated prices. Under these circumstances it is very easy to
see how an innovative new product could just sink into oblivion.

In light of these observations I think that the advent of marketing
alternatives such as ShareWare is a sign of the times. The availability
of low cost communications through high-speed modems and networks
obviously is a major factor in this. If you have a virtually free way of
distributing information to a vast global community, it does tend to
distort the traditional marketing theory.

Being primarily a hardware engineer, I have been looking for some sort
of hardware equivalent to PD and ShareWare. I think it would be great if
the Amiga community had access to high quality hardware products at real
budget prices. Even if there was a fraction of the quantity of software
PD, it would be a vast improvement. Projects like "The Lucas Board" have
demonstrated that there is a lot of interest in PD hardware add-ons for
Amiga computers. Unfortuately, you can't put hardware on a disk, and you
can't give away chips and boards relying on people to send you a cheque.
Some other scheme is in order.

PUBLIC DOMAIN KITWARE

My proposal for a ShareWare equivalent for hardware is "Public Domain
KitWare". This PD KitWare is envisaged as an Open Architecture hardware
design distributed on PD disks in the form of:-

    Schematic Diagrams    (HPGL plots)
    PC Board Layout       (HPGL plots)
    Mechanical drawings   (HPGL plots)
    Documentation         (text)
    Design Notes          (text)
    Assembly Instructions (text)
    Programmers Notes     (text)
    Support Software      (binary)
    Drivers               (binary)


In addition, the author should make available at a reasonable cost,
Printed Circuit Boards, Custom chips, ROMs and hard-to-get-parts. The
design should be tested, known to work, and easy to build.

Let me elaborate on how I see this PD KitWare concept working.

    By publishing Schematics and Design documents the Author is
    contributing a valuable resource to the Public Domain. Anyone
    wanting to design a similar product or learn about design principles
    has a starting example.

    By publishing a design Public Domain, the designer immediately has
    exposure to a large number of interested computer users world wide.

    A KitWare design can be quickly evaluated by SIGs or other technical
    people and the results disseminated on network. It is conceivable
    that a regulatory body similar to the Association of ShareWare
    Professionals could be formed which certifies KitWare designs.

    People can use their own skills and resources to put together some
    hardware for a fraction of the cost of commercial products. Small
    companies not able to do their own R&D can manufacture and sell the
    design after buying the key components - almost like a franchise.

    It should be possible to adapt the design to a specific application
    provided the original designer is credited and his/her work is not
    just copied.

    Open Architecture hardware is more likely to be supported. With easy
    access to schematics and design information, just about any
    technical person can provide support. Bulletin boards and networks
    are likely to be a more reliable source of technical information
    than a tech support line.

    With access to the architecture of the design, PD or commercial
    versions of drivers and support software can be written, independent
    of the original author. At his/her discretion the Author could
    provide source to other programmers for extensions or improvements.

    Custom Logic - GALs, PALs, PLDs, Gate Arrays - are not published and
    remain the intellectual property of the designer. The designer may
    become a small scale chip manufacturer like Intel of Motorola.
    However, other independent agents could design their own equivalent
    parts.

    Firmware or software associated with the design should be
    distributed in binary form only, ensuring that alternative versions
    are the product of a serious effort - not confusing adulterations of
    the original source.

    Subject to free market forces the design can be assembled, fixed,
    manufactured, sold or distributed in any way, anywhere, by anyone.
    The designer trades exclusive control of the design for world wide
    exposure.



THE ROLE OF CUSTOM LOGIC

Low Cost Custom Gate Arrays are the way of the future for hardware
design. Even now you can get an Off-The-Shelf chip equivalent to 6,000
gates and burn a design into it using a PC. I believe this will change
the way we look at hardware design. If a designer can put a signifigant
part of his design into custom logic, he becomes a chip manufacturer and
is free to make the rest of the design Public Domain. This paves the way
for Open Architecture hardware and allows an environment where hardware
design can be decentralised and individuals can profit from their work
without joining a corporation.

The use of custom chips is central to the idea of KitWare. Obviously no
one is going to spend years developing a hardware product then give away
all that work for someone else to make money out of. Custom logic
provides a way to ensure that the designer gets a royalty on each product
built. Anyone else will have to do a signifigant amount of work to
duplicate the custom logic and will be later into the market. I think
everyone will benefit from this arrangement - designers will have a new
medium to propagate their designs and the Amiga community will have much
more innovative and affordable source of peripherals.


DISTRIBUTED DESIGN

The KitWare concept opens up some interesting possibilities. What if you
had a new product designed over the networks by completely independent
designers. For example:-

    Agent A specifies a Schematic and Gate Array to implement a design

    Agent B designs a PCB using the Gate Array

    Agent C publishes software/firmware to drive it (as ShareWare)

The resulting KitWare would benefit all participants as they would each
supply their own relevent components. The Agents could be individuals,
companies or groups. This scheme could provide a way of developing PD
alternatives to big R&D things like 24 Bit video products. An evolving
open architecture design would ultimately be of greater value to the
Amiga Community than the duplicated effort of competitive corporate
designs.


Norman Jackson

Plumbago Ridge Design Studio
P.O. Box 98
TABULAM
NSW     2470
Australia


EMAIL  normj@runx.oz.au

