  The AMOS Procedure Library contains procedures for use in AMOS programs.
The procedures are freely redistributable, and may be included in any code.
All of the procedures work with both AMOS Creator and AMOS Professional,
except where specified in the "Contents" file.

  The organisation of the library is:

  - The archive contains several directories, each of which contains a set
      of procedures relating to a specific subject, such as graphics.

  - Each directory contains several files.  The name of each file is the
      name of the procedure it contains.  Other procedures required for
      the main procedure are also included in the file.  The files are
      normal AMOS programs, so they can be loaded into your code with the
      "Merge" command from the Editor.
    Some procedures have accompanying text/AmigaGuide documentation; the
      documentation has the same name as the procedure with ".doc" or
      ".guide" appended.
    Some procedures have demonstration/test programs with them.
    In some cases, as noted in the Contents file, a particular file will
      contain several related procedures.  Any or all of these can be
      included separately.

  - The archive also contains three special files.  They are:
      ReadMe   - this file!  :-)
      Contents - A description of each procedure, with its calling format
                   and other pertinent details.  The procedures are
                   separated into their groups, and the groups and the
                   procedures within them are alphabetized (with the
                   exception of the "Other" group, which is last).
      ProcList - An alphabetical list of procedures with a short
                   description of each.

  If you'd like to submit a procedure for inclusion in the library, either
send me a disk with the procedure(s) on it, or (if you have Internet
access) e-mail me a uuencoded copy of the procedure, preferably in an LhA
archive.  Remember that all procedures in this library are freely
redistributable, so don't send me anything you don't want to be
distributed.

  Special thanks go to Paul Hickman (ph@doc.ic.ac.uk) for the idea of Screen
Eaters.  These have their own directory; see the file "ScreenEaters/SE.doc"
for more information.

  Enjoy!

  --Andy Church, library compiler
Email: 95ACHURCH@vax.mbhs.edu
