READ THESE NOTES BEFORE TRYING TO LOAD/RUN THE CODE!

This is my gift to Amiga CANDO programmers. The source code to
several programs I've written.

VORTEX
------

The complete code to the full program. Unfortunately
there's no documentation "within" the code. You'll simply have to
"step" your way through the code to find out what it does. It really
isn't THAT difficult to do. Just find a button.. and follow the code
like a trail. You'll probably learn a lot more this way than if
I TOLD you what the code was doing :)

You should find MANY valuable elements in this program!
The requester, the droptions/directory scanning, etc.

IMPORTANT:

All of the Vortex code was created to reside in the following
directory: "dh1:EZ-UU"

The easiest way to get all the files in the correct place is to
simply unpack the archive directly to your "DH1:" partition.

You will also require the seperate CLI utilities mentioned
in the Vortex docs for the program to perform all of the functions.

ARC-ANGEL
---------

A little program I never finished. It's a directory utility
that allows you to descend into ZIP, LHA and LZX archives
as if they were standard directories. The main functions
are not implemented... but the directory scanning is nearly
complete. A very rough deck, but you can learn alot here!

IMPORTANT:

All of this code belongs in a drawer called "dh1:ARC_ANGEL".
The easiest way to get all the files in the correct place is
to unpack the archive directly to your "DH1:" partition.

You will require "lha", "Zip", "Unzip", and "lzx".. in c:
to perform scanning into archives of those formats.

----------

That's it for this release, coming in the next CANDY
archive....

NEXUS: Image translator code.
-----------------------------
A huge amount of code that I used to create (and never finish)
a GUI for the NETPBM image conversion tools.

PRE-DCTV
--------
A DCTV image "previewer". Allows you to see DCTV image
contents without DCTV connected and without conversion.

RELEASE NOTES:

I worked for 8 months on Vortex.. and didn't recieve a SINGLE
donation for my efforts. It was very dissapointing to say
the least. I'm releasing the CODE and hoping that those
who find it useful will send a donation of $1-$5.

Joey McDonald
2627 S. Lamb Blvd. #205
Las Vegas, NV 89121

I would very much appreciate the donation!

The code is FREEWARE. You may take and use ANY and ALL code
within your own programs and for ANY purpose. However, you
must also include a STATEMENT within your documentation
that my code was used in the creation process of your program.
Please... give credit where credit is due!

LONG LIVE THE AMIGA and CANDO!

Joey McDonald
tron@mclv.net
