
                 colorwheel.gadget
            AROS version by Georg Steger
         AmigaOS® port by Stephan Rupprecht
    

COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER
 The AROS colorwheel.gadget applies to the standard copyright
 rules of the Amiga® Research OS. The authors are not
 responsible for any damage caused by the use or misuse of
 this documentation and/or the program(s) it describes.


REQUIREMENTS
 Any Amiga® (compatible) computer with AmigaOS® 3.x and 
 68020+ (the faster, the better:) cpu.


GENERAL DESCRIPTION 
 "The color wheel gadget class provides the ability to create gadgets
  enabling the user to control the hue and saturation components
  of an HSB (Hue-Saturation-Brightness) color space." (description
 was taken from the Autodocs, © Amiga Int,Inc.). It's used in
 conjunction with the gradientslider.gadget by various programs
 such as Palette and IconEdit v44.


DESCRIPTION OF THIS SPECIAL VERSION
 The colorwheel.gadget that comes along with this archive
 was originally written by Georg Steger for the Amiga® Research
 OS (AROS). It has been ported and optimized for the AmigaOS®
 by Stephan Rupprecht. In opposite to the original gadget, this
 one supports hi- and truecolor displays, giving you a nice looking
 color gradient on high screen depths (CyberGFX compatible API re-
 quired).
 

KNOWN PROBLEMS  
 - This gadget requires more cpu time to draw itself than the original
   one does. So sometimes it may look like that your computer got 
   deadlocked. After some secs your computer should work again. If you
   have a 68060 cpu, you should install the appropiate version of the
   gadget.


INSTALLATION
 Simply copy colorwheel.gadget to SYS:Classes/gadgets. A special version
 for 68060 owners is also included into the archive (don't forget to
 rename this version by removing the .060 suffix).


SPECIAL THANKS GO TO
 Matthias Bethke, Dominique Harelle, Marc Savart, Mario Cattaneo,
 Martin McKenzie,  Wolfgang Krause, Matta, Jörg Deutschle,
 Alexander Niven-Jenkins
 
 for bug-report, suggestions and testing


HISTORY
 44.0  first public release
 44.1  a few optimiziations. the gadget size is limited to 440x440
       pixels, now. added missing code that makes the gadget box
       around the wheel transparent (aka grey bg instead of bg
       image) <Marc Savart>.
 44.2  now uses AllocRaster() to allocate memory for the mask, this
       will fix the drawing problem when p96 is used <reported by
       several users>.
 44.2b (dated 06-Aug-00) changed a single byte:) blitting to an
       interleaved bitmap didn't work correctly due to a wrong minterm.
 44.3  seems that using AllocRaster() to allocate memory for the mask
       wasn't a good idea. At least here, it always corrupts the 
       memorylist. Don't know why but using AllocVec() seems to
       fix the problem. A drawback of this is that the gadget will
       use chipram even when not necessary but I don't care as long
       as it works ;) Please report if you have any problems!
 44.3b included special version for 060 cpus (faster!). Thanks to
       Martin McKenzie for testing.
 44.4  never updated a program that often within a single week, but
       nobody is perfect;) the colortable passed to LoadRGB32()
       wasn't terminated by a NULL, this could have lead to wrong
       colors on <=8bit screens. there was a chance that WritePixelLine8/
       WritePixelArray was invoked with a width parameter of 0, I hope
       it didn't cause any trouble <Georg Steger>.
 44.5  improved and bugfixed dithering code. Thanks to Georg for his
       help.
 44.6  various optimiziations, which helped to remove the size limit of 
       the gadget. they also fix the inprecise working knob of the 68060
       version. added EraseRect() where it was missing <Harry Sintonen>.
 44.7  attempting to move the knob of a disabled gadget will fail, now
       <Mario Cattaneo>. instead of ghosting the entire gadget box, only
       wheel will be drawn ghosted when the gadget gets disabled <also Mario>.
 

AUTHOR

Please send bug reports and ideas to:

 Stephan Rupprecht, Apfeldweg 1
 D44359 Dortmund, Germany

 info@stephan-rupprecht.de
 http://stephan-rupprecht.de

 or

 Georg Steger, Hochlercher 30, 
 I-39030 St. Johann/Ahrntal
 
 georg.steger@rolmail.net
