
  This file contains suggestions/bugs that I am working on  but  have not
  made it in this release yet. Please read this file  _before_  you start
  sending me bug reports and suggestions. Thanks in advance.....

  BUG   = A bug that's still in there.
  SUG   = A suggestions which still needs to be implemented.
  ADD   = An addition that must be made.
  ASU   = SUG+ADD
  REV   = Revision work
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

  BUG   The (Sub)Item editor still has a bug  which I can't  figure  out.
        To set the mutual exclude of a (sub)item  you must press the  "X"
        key. When this is done you must press the  menu button  and  keep
        the mouse pointer on the menu for about  10 TO 15 SECONDS  before
        intuition decides to drop the menu.  This also  seems to  be  the
        case when MFR is installed.

  BUG   Ever since the X and Y block possibility  is  there  the  program
        doesn't respond to the ESC key as fast as it should. I.E. The ESC
        key must be held down about 1 second before GadToolsBox get's the
        message. (I really must check the message handler......)

  SUG   Showing the Gadget Text's when moving.

  SUG   Program modes with a tool window.

  SUG   ARexx port.

  REV   I must totally redo the menu and (sub)item  editors.  The minimum
        addition must surely be to ability to move the menus in the list.

  SUB   Remove the red warning color with important requesters.

  BUG   I still haven't been able to figure out why exactly the  Password
        option with the powerpacker.library seems to cruch the data wrong
        I  have  written  to  Nico about  it and still am waiting  for an
        anwser. In the mean time this option isn't available.

  ADD   I would like to let GadToolsBox  be  able to  generate  an  event
        handler for each gadget, menu and window event. I have some ideas
        of how to implement this but suggestions are welcome...

  ASU   Generating an array of gadget initial states. E.g.  TRUE or false
        for a CheckBox Gadget, The select node in a ListView gadget,  The
        level of a slider and so on....  These things can then be updated
        by the event handler that GadToolsBox should generate (see above)

  ASU   Importing  IFF  ILBM  images  and  maybe  even  make  use  of the
        standard intuition boopsi images and gadgets.

  ADD   A programmer from AMOK  (Kai Bolay)  is  busy  writing  an Oberon
        source generator.  Could take some time though because the man is
        very busy with his school work.

  ASU   Making the GETFILE boopsi image sizeable.
