
	MakeEFile
	¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


	This program allow you to compile a E source just by clicking an icon
	in which, you'll set some tooltypes.

	When you write a new project, preferably make first a new dir for it,
	where you'll put your E sources about this new project.

	To make MakeEFile usable, you may place it in a used path (eg. C:).

	Make a copy of the icon of MakeEFile, be sure that it is a Tool icon,
	and put it in your new project drawer.

	Write your E source(s) and store it(them) in this drawer.


	Now, let's set up the tooltypes:

	NAME	this is the name of your final project (myProg),
		if not defined MakeEFile will tell it you and break.
	EPP	a flag which say that the project have EPP modules to load.
		default is NO
	EPPDIR	is only use if EPP=YES, and tells where EPP is (C:EPP).
		default is "E:EPP/bin/EPP".
	ECDIR	tells where EC is (C:EC).
		default is "E:v39_emodules/Bin/EC21b_v39".


	I add a string version builder, which will be in the executable.

	VERSION	the version number for your project, default 1

	MakeEFile incremente and save the revision number each time you run it
	for your project (this is the normal way how to use the revision number)

	REVPATH	tells where this file is, default is 'revision'. If MakeEFile
		can't found the defined one, the default setting be will used.

	AUTHOR	additive note of the author, which will be placed after the
		date in the version string. Generaly, this is the author's name,
		and in what langage the project was write. default is no
		author's string.

	So the version string will look like:

	'$VER: MyProg <version>.<revision> (<date>) <author's string>',10,13,0

	If you use KCommodity (from DP) the date will take first from the
	ENV:DATE, or if this file is not found, the date will take from the
	System and formated as dd.mm.yy.

	WINDOW	this last ToolType is used if you want to have the messages
		from EPP and EC in your own output window instead of E
		default one.
		default is E window.


	Note:	In the source of MakeEFile you can change the default setting of
		EPPDIR & ECDIR if the default settings don't please you.
		Don't touch to other please.


	Now, to compile your project, just run the MakeEFile icon by a double-
	click on it, and you project will be compile (and preprocessed
	eventualy). Revision number is automaticaly updated for each compilation.


	NOTE:	I have noticed, after the compilation is finished, if you type
		in the output window RETURN, you'll find this window usable
		as a new shell. It's not a bug from me, cause i've tried with
		the E default con and the same thing appends. This surprise
		is cause by the Execute() dos function. I don't know why and
		i don't know if it's a bug or wanted.
		Clock on the close gadget will end this newshell. As the Shell
		does.

	Test it by clicking the MakeEFile icon, MakeEFile will compile itself!



	'It's more fun to compute'
				KraftWerk (computer world)


		Frantz
