This is one of the many Commodities Exchange  clones available. This one
is based on a BGUI graphical user interface.  It  works  almost  exactly
the same as the original C= Exchange program.  It does have some special
features though :)

This is what you'll see in the GUI:

 Listview - In this gadget you will see all commodities listed currently
	    running on your system.  Active  commodities are shown using
	    the pen for important text (usually white) and  the inactive
	    commodities  are  show  using  the	normal text pen (usually
	    black).

	    The  listview  is in  multi-selection mode	which means that
	    you  can  select  more  than one commodity at the time.  All
	    operation buttons below the  listview  will also  have their
	    effect on all the selected commodities.

	    To get a little more information on a specific commodity you
	    can double-click it.  This will  bring up a  requester which
	    shows you the info.

 Show	  - This will tell all the  selected  commodities to  open their
	    windows. Commodities which do not have a window to open will
	    not respond.

 Hide	  - This does the  opposite of	Show.  It will tell all selected
	    commodities which have open windows to close them.

 Flip Status - As explained above the active commodities are rendered in
	    a different color than the inactive ones.  When you click on
	    this button  the  state  of the  selected  commodities  will
	    change from active to inactive or vice versa.  With that the
	    color of the commodity names also change.

 Remove   - Simply removes all selected commodities from the system.

The below button named "Hide" does exactly the same  thing as  the  Hide
button	explained  above  with	the  exception	that  it only applies to
WallStreet itself.

Finaly the Quit button will, surprise surprise, quit the program.

"Why yet another Exchange clone?"

Well, people asked me for some functional demos for BGUI and this seemed
to be a nice demo even though it is a hack.  It  shows	you a  couple of
interesting  things  about  the  BGUI  listview class.	 Also  I  needed
something which  could terminate all commodities on my system  in one go
to run some demos from the AmiNet CDs.	"YES, I like to see good demos."
This way I'm serving both the BGUI users and myself.

To run WallStreet you'll have to quit the original C=  exchange program.
WallStreet uses the broker name "Exchange" because this is the  only way
to  get important  brokerlist messages without having to resort to timer
based list updates.

Please	be  aware  that  this  is  a  hack  which relies on undocumented
features  of  the  OS and therefore cannot be seen as an example of good
programming.

Now some pros'n'cons in comparison to the "real thing" :)

Pro:

Font sensitive
Can act on multiple commodities at once
Serves as a nice BGUI example
Simply looks better ;)

Con:

Relies on undocumented Cx features
It's bigger (WHAT!!!!)
Not localized

Enjoy,
				Jan
