PURPOSE

  This is a collection of files to make life as a C programmer a bit easier.
  They require GoldED by Dietmar Eilert. The error parsing scripts also
  require DICE commercial by Obvious Implementations Corp.

COPYRIGHT

The complete package is © Copyright 1995 Stefan Berendes. All rights reserved.
May only be distributed on Aminet and via noncommercial BBS.
May also be included to any GoldED distribution package by Dietmar Eilert.

Some of the ARexx scripts are based on scripts originally written by
François Helsen and Dietmar Eilert.
The install script is based on install scripts by Dietmar Eilert.

If you modify the scripts, please send me a copy of the modified files
or at least the modifications you made. New scripts are also welcome for
inclusion to this package.

For comments, bug reports, flames, improvisations etc, send Email to

    BERENDES@reze-1.rz.rwth-aachen.de
    Stefan Berendes, 2:2452/107.38      (FidoNet)

or Snailmail

    Stefan Berendes
    Königstr. 62
    52064 Aachen
    Germany


INSTALLATION

  Simply run the provided install script. At least GoldED 3.0.1+ is required.
  (It may run under previous versions of the editor, but it has not been
  tested though.)

  My private suggestion is:

  Run the install script. Replace your old quickstarter with the new one
  provided in this package. When the editor pops up, select "USE new presets"
  and "SAVE preferences". Save the prefs as e.g. "GolDICE.prefs". Now start
  the editor with the command

    "ed arexx GOLDED.DICE config GoldED:config/GolDICE.prefs FORCE <filename>"

  (you may set an alias or use Stefan Becker's ToolManager to do this).
  Please note that the Arexx port name GOLDED.DICE is required by the arexx
  scripts.
  You may also load the C syntax parser, auto indent and other programmer
  specific presets. Save the prefs. When running GoldEd with the command
  above, you will get a programmer specific editor with syntax parsing and
  the like. Special tip: To interrupt your session, press <right amiga>-%,
  and your session with all open files will be saved and restored when you
  start your editor again.
  To edit some text, e.g. a mail, simply call the editor with "ed <filename>"

QUICKSTARTER:

    A modified version of GoldEDs quickstarter "Ed". This one accepts a
    FORCE/S switch as argument. If this switch is specified, only an
    already running GoldED is accepted that has an Arexx port with the
    same name as specified with the AREXX/K keyword. Otherwise a new
    GoldED is started with the given ARexx port and config file.
    This is a workaround for the missing capability of GoldED to have
    window-dependant configurations. This feature may become obsolete
    in the near future ;-)

    Note: The scipts require GoldEDs Arexx port to be named GOLDED.DICE.
    Use the following command to set up editor:

    "Ed AREXX GOLDED.DICE CONFIG GoldED:config/GolDICE.prefs FORCE"


PRESETS:

    My menu and keyboard settings. Support all the new scripts and also
    require some of the scripts that came with GoldED. For function key
    setting see the README file.

AREXX:

    A collection of useful ARexx scripts, including errorhandling
    (requires DICE 3.0 commercial), compiler control, programming
    support and misc functions. See the README file.
