
xad.hwp 1.0
===========

This plugin allows Hollywood scripts to open archives using the XAD system.
The XAD system is a toolkit designed for handling various file and disk
archiver formats. It consists of a master library and a number of XAD clients
for handling different file and disk archiver formats. By default, the XAD
system already supports many common archiver formats like ZIP, LhA, LZX, CAB,
bzip2, TAR, and RAR, which makes it a powerful tool for people that have to
deal with compressed data a lot.

The XAD system has its origins on the Amiga platform for which it was
originally developed by Dirk Stoecker in the 1990s. That's why all versions of
xad.hwp for AmigaOS and compatibles still use the xadmaster.library provided by
the host system. Both AmigaOS 4 and MorphOS come with xadmaster.library pre-
installed. For AmigaOS 3 and AROS xadmaster.library is available as third-party
software. On all other platforms, xad.hwp uses an open-source version of the
XAD system.

The XAD plugin uses Hollywood 6.0's new file and directory adapter plugin
interfaces which allow you to iterate through file archives supported by the
XAD system as if they were normal directories. Files within archives supported
by the XAD system can also be accessed as if the archive was a normal
directory. It is not necessary to unpack a file stored in an archive to a
temporary file before it can be opened. Hollywood 6.0's file adapter plugin
interface allows direct streaming from the archive into the respective file
handler.

Additionally, xad.hwp offers a range of functions to deal with archives
supported by the XAD system for people needing fine-tuned control over the XAD
system. These functions allow you to conveniently iterate over all files and
directories in an archive, read file attributes like date, protection bits,
compression details, etc. and extract files to an external or virtual file.
--
Released on 15-Dec-2017 by Andreas Falkenhahn <andreas@airsoftsoftwair.de>
=Visit http://www.hollywood-mal.com/ for more information on Hollywood=
