132 Rempstone Road,
Merley,
Wimborne,
Dorset BH21 1SX


Dear Mark and the rest of ACC,

Firstly, thanks for such a great disk magazine. I have been an Amiga nut
since '89 and have learnt a lot from the stuff on them. I started out
playing games like everyone else but gradually got bored and looked for
other stuff to do. I ended up buying Devpac 3 in June'92 and have never
looked back. It's great what you can do with the machine and it's only as
hard as you make it. So far I have written about 10 programs including a
WB Project-X clone in a window which still isn't quite finished(maybe this
summer!) and a number base convertor which addresses the problem of
converting 32-bit binary numbers into other bases which calculators don't
do. I've put this on the disk anyway and you can include it on ACC if you
want along with anything else on here. Eventually this base convertor will
turn into a full featured scientific calculator operated solely by gadgets
- the likes of which I still haven't seen done by anyone.

Back in ACC#29, you included your serial comms program which had problems
sending .exe files. I have had a look at it and spent some time in Monam
but couldn't find out why the problems arose. I expect by now you've
solved them anyway but I thought you might like to know that someone else
got stuck on it too with no luck! 

Also included are two programs of mine which I need some help with. The
first is fairly simple and is just a routine from Project-WB which should
make the WB screen go black while the window opens and initialises the
gfx. The problem is that while it works on WB1.x/2.x, it dosen't work on
my friends A1200. Maybe you could tell me why from the included source?

The second problem is a bit more difficult. I am building a
hardware/software combination project for my college work and it involves a
device that plugs into the serial port. My problem involves reading the
data that is sent to the serial port from the device. The hardware asserts
the CLS line( bit 4 of $bfd000 )for 0.0005 secs and my software must very
accurately measure the time of the intervals between each such pulse. At
present I am using an interrupt server attached to the VBlank server chain
which runs at 50Hz and within the code is the instruction 'btst.b
#4,$bfd000'. What I would like to do is have the Amiga create an interrupt
whenever the CLS line is asserted. I have only the faintest ideas about
how to do this and I imagine it must involve the reprogramming of the CIA
chips and the insertion of a new vector in the interrupt jump table. I
would be very grateful for any help received from anyone, however small.
At the very least I would like to speed up the rate of the current
interrupt to 100Hz but this wouldn't solve the problem completely.

The last problem is that of reading tooltypes from icons. The first time I
tried to do this was in AboutClock V2.00 and it works if you run it from a
CLI and if you are in it's own directory and if you haven't renamed the
program. The trouble is, that's three too many if's and I want it to work
all the time on all versions of workbench without worrying what the name of
the program is. I have included the full source for AboutClock with the bit
that does the icon reading stuff highlighted. I hope you or someone else
can help me out here. If you run the program then you can see what the
Speech? menu item does. It is this menu item and the position of the
window on start-up that I want to configure from the tooltypes.

Many thanks in advance to anyone for any help they supply and keep up the
good with ACC, it's well appreciated.  8-)

Yours sincerly,

    Stuart Davis (alias Rude Kyd)
