

TO DO: (by priority)
=====

-make the screenmode configurable
    10-21-98 DONE!

-improve menu handling
    9-22-98 DONE!

-clear buffer of errant mouse clicks so card plays are handled better
    9-22-98 DONE!

-stop on third trick if a euchre is a sweep (End Early ON)
    9-7-98  DONE!

**-add some more messages on hand results, picked randomly

-better trump images (shadows..Imagine?)
    9-7-98-got rid of shadows on trumcalls and pass images

-check into possible problems with AFS

-loner calling for computer players
    10-9-98 DONE!!

-tweak AI
    10-20-98 DONE!!

-stoner playing style

-sound effects (shuffle, deal, etc)

-smart ass comments (sampled?)

-use datatypes to show game images

-better win/loser picture (use Imagine?)

-opening graphic (use Imagine?)

KNOWN VARIATIONS:
================
    screw the dealer
    11 pt. game
    the "benny" (is a heart if UpCard)
    if dealers partner has dealer pick up trump, he must go alone
    oppose loners alone, 4pts for a Euchre on this! (some play with
        "Calling for Best")

===FROM A COUPLE OF WEB PAGES===

     Other rules:
There are quite a few rules that different people use, and others don't.
Here I will try to clarify some of them

1)Technically, you must have a "natural" card of the suit being made
    trump in order to pick it up. So if you deal and turn up the J of spades,
    you have to have another spade in your hand to make it trump, and the J
    of clubs does not count. However, most people let this rule slide. Even
    I let it go unless I'm in a tournament.

2)Screw the dealer is another one of those rules that some people use, and
    others don't. I've actually been to tournaments that use the rule, and
    don't use the rule so just make sure you decide on this before you start
    playing. "Screw the dealer" is where the dealer must make a suit trump if
    everyone else passes the second time around

3)If you're in Canada, you're probably getting ready to write me saying that
    the partner of the dealer has to go alone if they want to order up trump.
    Well, in Canada, this really is the case. In the US though, nobody has
    heard of the rule, and it is not used anywhere.

4)Hoyle's- This is where on a loner, the person to the left of the person
    going alone always starts with the lead. This gives them a better chance
    of stopping the loner. Now finding somebody that actually uses this rule
    would be quite a challenge, but it does exist.


JOKER. The joker is added to the pack, ranking as the highest trump. If the
    turn-up is a joker, it proposes hearts for trumps.

CALLING FOR BEST. A lone player is entitled to discard one card face down
    and call for his partner's best card as a replacement. The partner must
    make his own choice of his best card, without consultation. When a player
    "assists" and plays alone, dealer is entitled to give him the turn-up.

LAPS. If a player (or side) reaches a total or more than 5 points, he may
    carry forward the excess toward the next game.

Special Rules
Like every card game ever invented, there are hundreds of variations on
the basic game of euchre. We've compiled a list of some of the most common...

Stick the Dealer
    In this variation, the dealer is not allowed to pass a second time. If
    no one else calls trump, the dealer must do so. In other words, every
    time the cards are dealt, someone's going to score some points. This is
    a pretty good addition, but is kind of tough on beginners.

Ace-No Face
    This is a protective sort of thing. If a player is dealt a hand with (only)
    one ace and no face cards, then they are allowed to call "Ace-No Face".
    Everybody's hands are thrown in and the current dealer deals again. This
    is a really great way to waste time, and probably shouldn't be used when
    all the players have some experience in the game.

Partner's Best
    This is another cheeseball rule. When a player decides to go alone, then
    after trump is called, the player's partner chooses a card and passes it to
    the fellow with the loner hand. This makes getting a loner entirely too easy,
    and most games end up lasting about five rounds.

Farmer's Hand
    This rule is questionable even for fans of Ace-No Face. If someone is dealt
    three nines or three tens, they have the opportunity to, before they decide
    on the proposed trump, to exchange their puny cards with the three face-down
    cards in the kitty. Some folks allow players to call Farmer's Hand if they
    have any three-card combination of nines and tens- these are probably the
    same people that wear elbow pads when they speed-walk. Any number of players
    can invoke this rule during a given round, but bear in mind that after the
    first farmer's hand, the kitty is guaranteed to consist of ugly cards.

No First Blood
    We didn't run across this one until college. In a nutshell, this rule
    states that the first lead of the round may not lead trump. We're pretty
    much in favor of this one- stops the leader from fishing out everybody's
    money cards with a bauer-bauer quickie.

Five Point Euchre
    This is just regular euchre, played to five points instead of ten.


FUTURE:
======

-move to MUI for nicer GUI, easier to code, allow custom screen configs

-implement a Soliton mode

-TCP/IP play?
