The programs included are part of a PILOT language implementation for the
AMIGA.  PILOT is a limited use language for use in educational and computer
based instruction programs.  It finds great use in the simple programs used
to introduce computer subjects.

	PILOT also has found use in the Interactive Video field.
At Flight Training Devices, we have been involved in the use of interactive
video for Pilot training.  In the last year, we have been working on a
special project for the National Park Service to explore the use of the
Amiga computer to replace the aging Sony CP/M 64K SMC-70 computers.  At
this time the Amiga is not ready to assume this role; however, for any 
interest hackers, the Amiga can produce a good interactive presentation for
less than half the cost of an IBM or new SONY system.

	The Interactive installation we supported consists of the following
components:

	Touch-Panel monitor    (Sony PVM-1911,  Sony PVQ-1271 with
					SFB-1000 touch-panel overlay and
					Sony PVM-1910 with SF-19 overlay
					were all tried and successfully
					used. )
	Laser videodisc player  ( Pioneer LD-700 with IU-04 interface and
					Pioneer LD-V4200 industrial players
					were successfully used.  )
			Comment: We stuck to RS-232 control since the added
				cost in equipment is less than $250.00 

	GenLock      ( The Amiga GenLock 1300 unit was the only one tested.)

	
	Amiga 1000 with 1.5 meg.  ( In configurations that did not use the
				Laserdisk, the Amiga 2000 and Amiga 500 were
				tested.  Only 256K required for the PILOT
				program from CLI. )


The programs on this disk do not contain the interactive video features since
development is continuing on these products.  Any person or company 
interested in Beta testing our program may obtain a full Beta test kit
for $10.00 from:
		
		Flight Training Devices - Alaska
		P. O. Box 91723
		Anchorage, AK 99509-1723

		My phone is 907-276-6719 but you will not likely
	reach me personally. (leave a message)

		BIX:  tlagrone
		CSERV: 76074,172

Programs on this disk:

PILOT:

 	This is an executable of Common PILOT which forms the base of
the language.  It is close to Apple Pilot or PC Pilot.  Documentation
is in the file manual.pil.  The file is best read with PILOT by using
the CLI command.

		PILOT MANUAL

MANUAL.PIL:

		This is the language documentation written in the
PILOT language.

DEMOPILOT:

		This is a reduced version of our PILOT with IFF reader
and mouse support.

DEMONPS.PIL:

		This is the pilot file which represents about 10% of the project
conducted for the National Park Service.  The full program used 1.6 MEG of
space and is too large for distribution.  This program may not be sold
except as part of nominal cost public domain disks with credit given to 
Park Service and Flight Training Devices - AK.  Since your tax dollars paid
for this part, it is public domain.

	To run program you must also have the files in the pic and tex
directories.  These directories must be at the root of the DF1: 
disk.  The program must be run from DF1: as currently configured.  
To relocate, the demonps.pil file must be edited appropriately. 
(replace 13 occurrences of DF1: with the new location of the files)

	run program with the command

		DEMOPILOT DEMONPS

	or double click on the Demonps.pil icon.

Two other icons are included for use with single disk systems (df0:) and
Amiga 2000 systems (df2:).  They correspond to the modified files. For
Fred Fish -- substitute your full path for  DF1: etc. and it will run on
your disks.   i.e.   AmigaLibDisk139:pilot/   subbed for DF1:


PIC files are standard iff files -- edit with any paint program.

TEX files are short ASCII files  --  edit with any editor.



All programs are provided without warrantee. The guru will visit in
low memory situations on the Demo. 

Use freely and have fun.  Pilot is not dead.  In fact an IEEE standards
committee is being established to standardize the Language from the
multitude of variations available.
