ANNOUNCEMENT:

        //    							        //
       //     M2Amiga						       //
   \\ //      A new single pass Modula-2 compiler for the Amiga    \\ //
    \X/ 							    \X/

M2Amiga the ultimate Modula-2 compiler for the Amiga is available now!  This
compiler is derived directly from Professor Wirth's new single pass compiler
and has been adapted to the Amiga environment by the same team that released
the public domain ETHZ compiler on Fish Disk #24. Since the release of  this
version a lot  of changes  had been  made to  fit optimally  into  the Amiga
environment.

M2Amiga works with version 1.2 of the Amiga operating system and runs on the
Amiga 500, Amiga 1000 and on the Amiga 2000 with at least one disk drive and
at least 512k of RAM. The system  can be  used either  from the CLI (Command
Line Interface) or from within the workbench environment 

This system comprises:

- an English or German language User Guide which explains in detail how  the
  system works, describes the basic modules and contains all interfaces with
  the Amiga operating system as Modula-2 definitions. This documentation and
  the English introductory guide allow  both the  beginner and the  advanced
  user to find the information he or she needs quickly and easily.

- a single  pass compiler  which produces  68000 machine  code from standard
  ASCII files at high speed. It can  generate on request  code to test array
  limits, stack  limits, overflow  and missing  return instructions etc. The
  compiler  does not interrupt on  errors but  continues compilation, noting
  any further ones. Exceptionally accurate error messages  are recorded in a
  file for later display by the editor.

- mc68000 specific operations as reading and writing registers, inline 68000
  instructions, FFP representation of REAL numbers (together with IEEE)  are
  supported by the compiler. Also supported are double precision  types. ROM
  calls (Exec, Intuition etc) DO NOT REQUIRE intermediate code.

- a  run-time system  takes into  account the special conditions of a multi-
  tasking system. Program crashes  (division by 0, address errors etc.)  are
  trapped, all open files are closed and all allocated memory is released.

- an editor derived from microEmacs that places the cursor at  the error and
  reports the error in plain text. Menus and error messages are  displayable
  in either German or English.

- a linker which automatically searches for all the  implementation  modules
  belonging  to  a module  and combines them  into a  program  which can run
  either from the workbench environment or from the CLI.

- all definitions relating to  the Amiga  operating system.  The definitions
  follow  the  official  definitions  for  the  C  programming  language  in
  structure and nomenclature. Modula-2's  much more  stringement data typing
  has been used in these definitions wherever possible. Remember: NO  OBJECT
  files with intermediate code needed!

- a  large  number  of  basic  libraries:  Arguments,   ASCII,   Conversions,
  Coroutines, FileNames, FileSystem,  FFPConversions, Heap,  InOut, MathLib0,
  MathLibLong, RandomNumbers,  RealConversions,  Storage,  Strings, Terminal,
  TextWindows and many more.

- even more: additional utilities are available for this basic package. There
  is a loader with  a source level  debugger, a converter for  standard Amiga
  object files  and further libraries  which are extremly  useful for program
  development.


The single pass compiler, the  user-friendly run-time  system and the absence
of   intermediate  code for  ROM calls  makes this system very  suitable  for
efficient program development on the Amiga.

M2Amiga  is  available  in  its  German version since August 87 and Interface
Technologies  Corporation and I are  very proud to  announce this product now 
on the American market. 

M2Amiga costs $199 (+$5 for shipping and handling) and is available from

Interface Technologies Corporation	further info (713) 523 8422 Markus
3336 Richmond,  Suite 323		orders       (800) 922 9049
Houston, Tx 77098

Also available:
- a demo version for limited  programs and with just a few libraries.
  Cost: $5 (+$1 for shipping and handling)
  Will be on a Fish Disk soon.

In Europe:
A.+L. Meier-Vogt, Im Spaeten 23, CH 8906 Bonstetten/ZH, +41 1 700 3037

Being one of the developers of this product I'll be happy to answer your
questions by e-mail, mail or on the phone.

Markus Schaub
M2Amiga Developer

