                                                9 Pendean
                                                Burgess Hill
                                                West Sussex
                                                RH15 ODW
                                                12/2/92
                                                
Greetings Mark/Ray/All ACC users!

First of all, apologies for the lack of code this month - I've been fairly
well bogged down with various assessed essays...(yuk!)

Apologies also go to any A500P owners who tried to use my hardware startup
code last month - there was a.. erm.. slight misunderstanding between my
code and exec...
OK. I'll come clean - I was doing something highly illegal! I was grabbing
the address of the graphics library from a list in exec, ASSUMING it would
always be there/the same - BUT under 2.0 it's not! However this is now
cured, and I can make a very firm guarantee that all of my future code
will be 2.0 compatible... I got rash and purchased a 2.04 ROM at a fairly
extortionate cost. However I now have the new workbench up & running, and
am using Devpac 3 2.0, Powerpacker 4 2.0, etc. all without problems :-)

Now a plea for help! I have a revision 6A motherboard in my Amiga. ie. It
has 512k on board, 'holes' for 512k more, and a Fat Agnus.
I bought, some time ago, a Power Computing 1.5 MB internal ram expansion.
This works fine under 2.0... however while I had my Amiga's lid off, I
decided to make the necessary modifications for 1MB chip ram.
THIS DIDN'T WORK! On turning on the power, I was just greeted by a black
screen... I had yet to put the new ROM in, so I decided to plug in my
Action Replay II and have a snoop...
I concluded that the 1MB chip ram was ok, but no fast ram was present - the
system however thought there was some present & tried to put exec in 'fast'
ram. Bus errors resulted.
I could get around this problem by disabling fast ram with the Action Replay
but I kind of missed that extra 1MB! So my problem -  how can I have 1MB chip
& 1MB fast ? Ideally someone would be able to tell me how I could modify my
board (trapdoor expansion or A500) so I could have this configuration!
I know that I could buy a new empty board, and just add the chips from my 
present board - but that would cost £40 by the look of current prices!
Grouch number 2: My trusty debugging tool, one Action Replay II doesn't work
with Kickstart 2! I knew that it didn't work on the plus, but it now seems
that Datel's designers are more system-unfriendly than I previously thought!
I mean, it doesn't work with lots of memory expansions (The Mark 3 advert
states that it is MORE compatible in this area), hard disks with through ports
are a definite no go area, AND even when it does work on a given system,
there is no guarantee that their DOS saving routines will work - the unit
cannot validate a disk! Ugh.


There are only 3 main pieces of code this month, plus a lot of supplementary
stuff:

Polygon clipping - The source 'poly6.s' provides a fairly good polygon
		   handler, taking care of clipping, and drawing in lots
		   of colours... The routine can't cope with overlapping
		   polygons at present - to do this the routine must
		   first draw a polygon on a blank screen, then cookie
		   cut it onto the destination screen.
		   
		   The subject of clipping is explained in the file
		   PolyArticle, supplementing the comments in the source
		   code.
		   
		   Fillwindow.s is a small collection of routines (untested)
		   to only fill/wipe a window on the screen, so as to
		   speed up polygon drawing etc. This code can be put
		   into poly6.s quite easily - see the comments at the head
		   of the poly6.s source for speed improvements : the code
		   has been written to serve as an illustrative example and
		   not some speed demon!
		   
Julia Sets	 - This program draws, on screen, at a respectable pace
		   a selection of Julia sets (CHAOS!). I am not going
		   to go into fractals etc. here, but I can recommend some
		   excellent books on the subject:
		   Chaos - J.Gleick :
		   	A good general book on, believe it or not - chaos!
		   The Chaos CookBook - Joe Pritchard :
	                Wow. I'll just quote the cover - 
	                'A practical programming guide with type-in-and-go
	                listings'
	                The programs are in both BBC BASIC and TURBO PASCAL
	                and are all very well explained. There is a wide
	                selection of 'chaos' in the book - Lorenz,Iterative
	                functions, Cellular automata... :-)
			The only drawback is the cost - £18.40.
			(Yes thats half of a Rom Kernal manual...)	                

		   Back to my code! The code also makes use of a few of my
		   standard stub routines for hardware hitting code - a new
		   one is 'fade.s', an intelligent two-way colour fade
		   routine. The routine just needs the current screen colour,
		   and a target colour to operate. The code needs adding to
		   for real ease of use - see the Julia.s source for
		   usage details.
	                
Relocation	 - I wasn't sure whether to submit this or not. The file
	           reloc.s contains code to relocate an executable file in
	           memory, independently of the system. The file is 
	           relocated in a continuous section of memory.
		   I have also decided to keep comments thin on the ground,
		   since you shouldn't really use this code unless you
		   have already considered writing your own... in which
		   case you will already be familiar with the BCPL
		   peculiarities of executable code. Note that this
		   code can't handle overlayed files or anything as 
		   sophisticated as that!
		   
		   The code is based on a scrap of code I found on
		   a utilities disk, and the relocation example that you
		   get with Argasm.
		   	   
		   		   
If anyone wants to write to me they can, and I'm willing to chat/help etc.
I am open to suggestions as to what to code/send!
I have yet to decide 100%, but next month could see the development
of a filled 3d routine, starting from the basics. I have a holiday AWAY
from the computer to think this over however, so things might change!

   Signing off:
                Paul Kent  12.2.92

               ...getting closer...

