
							Dave Edwards
							232 Hale Road
							WIDNES
							Cheshire
							WA8 8QA


 ( Clipped from a letter to me M.M. )

	Also, the following assembler include files:


			ACC_Startup.i
			exec_support.i
			glibfunc.i


are now available in their version 1.0 incarnations. The files were written
to provide the following features:


	ACC_Startup.i	:	PD startup code for applications
				startable from either WorkBench
				or the CLI. Allows applications
				access to input parameters in a
				consistent fashion.

	exec_support.i	:	PD assembler version of the C file
				amiga.lib. Provides various useful
				functions such as CreatePort() etc.

	glibfunc.i	:	PD graphics library support, prov-
				iding a selection of functions to
				make graphics primitives easier to
				live with. Includes such functions
				as MakeAllVPorts().


Full docs (including calling synopses in the case of the files exec_support.i
and glibfunc.i) provided as source code comments. These can be lifted out and
written to separate DOC files if wanted.

	Second topic:source code. I was laid low over the Christmas holiday
by tonsilitis, which really ruined any enjoyment of my Christmas dinner. As
a result, I haven't produced as much new source code as I would have liked.
However, I have written & completely debugged a collection of routines that
handle on-screen animation of blitter objects via the blitter interrupt. I
include the current version of the source for your perusal on this disc. It
should be noted, however, that since my machine is a half-meg job, you will
need to add directives to assemble the lot to CHIP RAM, which I can afford
to leave out as yet having no FAST RAM on my machine. I'll also supply some
decent documentation for the code on a separate file. Since this disc boots
up into PPMore (renamed ShowDocs on this disc), you can browse at will.

	This code DOES NOT implement screen switching, but can be adapted to
perform that function to kill off any screen flicker (which occurs with even
fairly small bobs for some reason I haven't yet figured out). However, it is
designed to be efficient, using the blitter interrupt to trigger further in-
stances of blitter activity rather than busy waiting (time better spent being
used for matters such as collision detection etc). At the moment, the blitter
objects are masked onto the screen, but that can be changed also, and under-
lying background data is saved into a buffer for recovery at a later stage. I
offer this as yet more PD code for inclusion on future ACC discs.


			Ta ra for now,




			Dave Edwards.






