NOTE: The provided "Install Textra Scripts" script will copy
      the Textra/ARexx scripts to your rexx: directory.  Just
      double-click on it's icon.


NOTE: To use Textra and JForth together, you must have AREXX
      installed and operating on your Amiga.


To use Textra as an integrated editor with JForth...

   1. Insure the provided 'JCompile.textra' script
      is in the rexx: directory (Use the script
      described in the above NOTE to install the
      Textra/ARexx scripts, if necessary).
   
   2. Launch both Textra and the JForth_Demo program.
   
   3. In Textra, open one of the provided source
      files (in the 'programs' drawer).
   
   4. In the Textra window for that source file, pull
      down the "Utilities, AREXX..." menu item.
   
   5. Into any of the string gadgets, type in
      
           jcompile
      
      then hit RETURN.  (From then on, to compile a
      window's contents, just select that window, and
      press the F-KEY associated with the 'jcompile'
      string gadget).
      
   6. Textra will tell JForth to compile the file.
   
NOTE: If an error occurs while compiling, JForth will
      tell Textra to highlight the offending line.
      The JForth window will display a specific error
      message.

NOTE: If the file compiles sucessfully, JForth will
      stay 'active' and front it's console window to
      facilitate execution/testing/debugging of the
      file just compiled.



Here is a list of provided '.textra' ARexx scripts
designed to interface with JForth...

JCOMPILE.TEXTRA    (arguments: none )

   As described above, this script is used to cause
   JForth to INCLUDE the JForth source code in the
   currently selected window.
   
TOJF.TEXTRA    (arguments: "string" )

   The provided "string" is sent to JForth for execution.

INTERPRET.TEXTRA    (arguments: none )

   The currently selected text in the currently selected
   window is sent to JForth for execution.  The selection
   may span multiple lines.




Refer to the documentation in the 'Textra_Stuff/Docs' drawer 
for specific information on Textra features and it's AREXX 
command set. 

NOTE: this is Textra v1.11, dated 23-Oct-91 and was the
      last FreeWare version of Textra.  Since then, there
      have been 2 ShareWare releases, v1.12 & 1.13, each
      adding significant features over this version, such
      as:
      
      o  UNDO
      
      o  More AREXX commands
      
      o  Smart-Launch (a 2cnd Textra opens window in 1st, then exits)
      
      o  Expanded range of Preferences-controllable options
      
      o  Correctly displays different WB 2.0 fonts
      
      o  Nestable AREXX scripts
      
      o  ... much more

      The latest registered version can be obtained by sending
      $25.00 to:
      
          Mike Haas
          3867 La Colina Rd.
          El Sobrante, CA. 94803
      
      A personalized registered copy will be sent out within 3 days
      of receiving your registration fee.
      
      Registered users of Textra may receive free updates at anytime.
      All they have to do is send Mike a self-addressed, stamped
      floppy-disk mailer, with a floppy disk enclosed.

      Customers of JForth who have returned their JForth registration
      form are eligible to receive free Textra registration.  They
      should follow the 'update' procedure above, and include their
      JForth SERIAL# (which will serve as the registration fee).
