
					About DICE
					----------

        Obvious Implementations Corporation has exciting news for anyone
interested in programming the Amiga computer at any level -- from beginner
through expert!

        For years DICE has been a highly respected name in the Amiga
programming community.  Now the new DICE 3.0 is brought to you by famous
Amiga Gurus Matt Dillon (freeware author), Andy Finkel (Amiga OS), John
Toebes (Software Distillery) and Bryce Nesbitt (Amiga OS & Enforcer).

        DICE has always been an excellent C language compiler.  Now the DICE
compiler is part of an integrated "system" of programming tools designed to
ease and speed creating programs for the Amiga.  For beginners DICE offers
an intuitive visual approach to creating programs -- and numerous examples. 
Programmers of all levels will appreciate how DICE integrates seamlessly
with their favorite text editor, offering tools and information at the touch
of a button.

        The new DICE focuses on _productivity_.  More than just a buzzword,
the DICE system focuses on getting code from keyboard to execution as
quickly as possible.  We give you a quick development cycle and fast compile
time so you can try new things quickly.  We bring all help online so you
don't spend time flipping through the manual.

DICE 3.0 includes:
        o Complete 450 page manual, including a section on avoiding
          the most common programming pitfalls.
        o Full, fast, online help. Help in under a second.
        o A complete visual compile environment (fully configurable 
          to provide a visual environment for any program).
        o All the updates, fixes and enhancements you'd expect to the
          original.
        o ANSI compatibility.
        o Romable code generation tools.
        o Source code management tools.
        o An easy to use full source level debugger - with the most asked 
          for features to make debugging simple.
        o A Compression system for use on floppy disk systems.
        o Two powerful ARexx aware programmer's editors
        o Full source code for the libraries and dozens of examples.
        o Comes with AmigaOS 1.3, 2.0, and 3.0 libraries and include files.
        o ANSI, Unix compatibility, and Amiga link libraries.
        o A package of "bonus" tools to help find bugs in your code.
        o Error messages in German, French, Swedish, American or English.
        
The new DICE is fast, inexpensive, easy, fun and works on any Amiga,
including floppy disk systems.  DICE is only $150.  SAS/C owners pay only
$95.  For students, DICE is $85.  Owners of the registered version pay $75,
and students who own the registered version pay just $65.  Add $5 for
international shipping.

Payment must be in USA funds.  Check, money order, Visa or Mastercard
accepted. Obvious Implementations Corporation, P.O. Box 4487, Cary, NC
27519-4487, USA. Order by calling 800-761-2042 or 919-859-7407, or fax an
order to 919-469-3853.  Email for full information "info@oic.COM".

				-30-
