							(Wai Hung Liu)
							Simon Liu
							90 Terenure Road East
							Dublin 6
							Ireland.

							15/2/93

Hi Mark!
	Well it took me long enough to actually get typing and contributing
to ACC but I've finally done it.  This is my first letter to ACC so what else
is there to do except for giving some personal info...  ;-)

	I'm only a measly 15 years old so I guess I'm the baby of all the
contributors.  I'm Chinese (just look at my complicated name!) and got my
Amiga in January 1989.  So 4 years later I've finally got into the groove of
coding.  In the early years I played games, messed about with utils, and made
pack disks.  Now, I enjoy taking an active part in the demo scene but the
developments that are happening make it very difficult to make any sort of
impact for yourself!  I'm currently "groupless" as I've decided to take some
time off and do some more routines rather than bung together some code with
music.

	Before I tell you about this issues stuff I want to talk to you about
the Amiga in general.  How much more can we squeeze out of it??  The great
coders out there code glenz vectors in an hour or two and seem to release
trackmos by the loadful.  But if you look at the demos the design seems to be
most important.  The vectors are combined with sine waves, and copper effects
to create a sort of metallic jelly cube.  Dragon balls seem to pop up
everywhere.  The A1200 breathes new life and I'm sure most guys who have got
a machine are amazed by it.  But if you're thinking about upgrading then think
again!  The much improved OS is similar to K2.0 and of course, the new graphic
modes (AGA).  Where is the HD drive and DSP???  There is a 68020 (maybe a
68030 would have been better...) and this will give your routines more speed
etc.  If you are an experienced programmer then by all means go for it.  If
like me, you're still finding your way around then isn't it better to stick
with a simpler machine?  Once you've mastered the A500 then it is time to
move on!  By the time I fully master the A500 Plus a Rejuvenator 2000 card will
probably be out that gives A500 machines the new features and more!!!
(But thats another story...)


	Now I'll waffle something else.

Glenz vectors - they look pretty amazing but they are just an adaptation of
an ordinary vector routine (well thats how I do them).
To understand how to do them you have to see how I do my vectors.

1. I draw a face (any colour - the lines are drawn into the correct bitplanes)
2. Repeat (1) until all faces are done
	(by using EXOR mode I prevent bleeding when filling)
3. Now I fill all bitplanes

Then on screen you can see the vectors.  Lets say you remove the hidden surface
formula.  Now all the faces on the back of a cube can be seen and make a mess.
Look at the glenz vector demos.  How many colours are there?? 4!!


	    F1
	--------
	|\  R /|
	| \  / |
F4	|W \/ W|	F2
	|  /\  |
	| /  \ |
	|/ R  \|		The other two colours come from the faces when
	--------		they are reversed, shading the basic colours
	   F3			or white and red.  So if there is a white panel
	   			on the back, it shades the white panel and red
	  			panels on the front to create 2 new colours.
				The same is for the red panel.  So you have
4 new colours, plus the original 2 colours and you have 6 colours.  Hmmmm.
But you should see that since there are no hidden surfaces the entire front
panel is shaded by the back (or hidden) surfaces so you only have 4 colours!!

Set up 4 bitplanes,
	bpl 1 - draw white panel		(color 1)
	bpl 2 - draw red panel			(color 2)
	bpl 3 - draw hidden white panel		(color 4)
	bpl 4 - draw hidden red panel		(color 8)

Now draw the white and red panels with the correct colour so they are drawn
into the above bitplanes.  You cannot define a "shaded panel" as it is a panel
that cannot be seen.  Simply set up the hidden surface routine so that hidden
surfaces have their colours increased.  So if a white panel (col 1) is hidden
then make it colour 4 by multiplying its colour by 4 (or shifting by 2).  The
same for a hidden red panel.

If you're still with me and done all this you'll realise that it is the
colour combinations over 4 bitplanes that make up the glenzvectors...

white panel (bpl1) is mixed with hidden white panel (bpl3) result is colour 5
white panel (bpl1) is mixed with hidden red panel (bpl4) result is colour 9

red panel (bpl2) is mixed with hidden white panel (bpl3) result is colour 6
red panel (bpl2) is mixed with hidden red panel (bpl4) result is colour 10



I hope you understand this, its never easy to explain a routine I find.  Read
over this several times and try it out and you'll see it does work - I'm not
wasting your time!  If you want, get a piece of paper and try drawing it out
as above with the colour mixing and panels - that's how I did it.  Anyway, if
you find a faster way of doing this (without the need of using the blitter
to copy blocks here, there, and everywhere) then send it in or get in touch
with me.


Phew.  The source on this disk is...

	Bob routine - simple blits, etc.  I decided to rewrite my existing
ones into something readable and here are the results.

	Equalisers - again some basic equalisers but note that the music
replay routine is changed.  Look for "mt_equ1/2/3/4" in the source and all
relevant parts, theres only about 2 sections altered.

	Replay routines - as many as I could find!  Thanks to Sean Burns for
getting some of the more obscure ones!



Well I'm going to be getting out of your way now.  Next issue I'll send in
THE source for Spaceballs "State of the Art" - I ripped it and hacked it and
have improved it by tenfold!!  The amount of bugs in it...  only joking!!
Seriously, I ran across some good source but I don't know whether to send it
in so I'll leave it at Marks discretion next issue...

				See ya all and keep coding!



					Wai Hung  (Simon)



PS. You can get in touch with me for coding reasons, swapping source and utils,
(nothing else!)

