
               gradientslider.gadget
            AROS version by Georg Steger
         AmigaOS® port by Stephan Rupprecht
    

COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER
 The AROS gradientslider.gadget applies to the standard copyright
 rules of the Amiga® Research OS. The authors are not
 responsible for any damage caused by the use or misuse of
 this documentation and/or the program(s) it describes.


REQUIREMENTS
 Any Amiga® (compatible) computer with AmigaOS® 3.x and 68020+ cpu.


GENERAL DESCRIPTION 
 "The gradientslider gadget is a type of non-proportional slider.
  The primary feature of the gradient slider is it's appearance. Unlike
  normal sliders, a gradient slider can display a "spread of colors" or
  "color gradient" in the slider container box. The "knob" or "thumb"
  of the slider appears to slide on top of this color gradient."
  (this description was taken from the Autodocs, © Amiga Int,Inc.).
 The gadget is used in combination with the colorwheel.gadget by
 various programs (Palette, IconEdit v44, ...).


DESCRIPTION OF THIS SPECIAL VERSION
 The gradientslider.gadget that comes along with this archive
 was originally written by Georg Steger for the Amiga® Research
 OS (AROS). It has been ported and optimized for the AmigaOS®
 by Stephan Rupprecht. In opposite to the original gadget, this
 one supports hi- and truecolor displays, giving you a nice looking
 color gradient on high screen depths (CyberGFX compatible API re-
 quired).


INSTALLATION
 Simply copy gradientslider.gadget to SYS:Classes/gadgets.


HISTORY
 44.0  first public release
 44.1  the background wasn't cleared when the gadget got less
       than 2 pens to draw it.
 44.2  the upper-left corner of MUI windows was erased due to the
       changes of 44.1.
 44.3  when using Pointer prefs v44, the slider was erased by its
       bevel box <Mario Cattaneo>.
 44.4  rearranged the drawing routine, this should finally fix any
       problems with MUI <Rene>.
 44.5  attempting to move the knob of a disabled gadget will fail,
       now <Mario Cattaneo>. speeded up rendering code.
 44.6  the gradient wasn't drawn correctly on <= 8bit screens with
       graphics.library v40 and horizontal mode enabled <Dagfinn Olsen>.
       rendering works faster even on a OS3.0 based system, now.
 

AUTHOR

Please send bug reports and ideas to:

 Stephan Rupprecht, Apfeldweg 1
 D44359 Dortmund, Germany

 info@stephan-rupprecht.de
 http://stephan-rupprecht.de

 or

 Georg Steger, Hochlercher 30, 
 I-39030 St. Johann/Ahrntal
 
 georg.steger@rolmail.net
