* Now compiled with Aztec C, vers 3.6A

This version compiled with a faster I/O system than previously
distributed by Fred Fish (but thanks for doing it in the first
place!!!!).  The input and expansion buffers are very large in
this version to handle the funny stuff any Object Orientated
translators should throw at us!  This is handled by the makefile
and not changes to cppdef.h.

I have compiled this version using 16-bits and stack checking.
ANSi style macros and enabling of #import directive set TRUE.

The different files are contained in this directory; use the source
from FF #28, then load these files on top of them.  This version
defines  "MCH_AMIGA".  The names "AZTEC_C", "manx", "lattice"
are no longer defined, since the preprocessor is none of these!

Fixed in cpp6.c are:  ctime() really returns the correct time,
Now #define to use movmem() when ANSI function memmov() is called.
Removed functions from cpp6.c that are now part of Aztec library.

Added to cpp2.c are:  #endif ignores all text after it.  The
directive #error has been added.  When encountered, it simply
prints the rest of the file line to stdout.  Added #import to
behave like on the NeXT GNU cpp program.

--- brian witt (October 1990)
--- Internet:  brian@babbage.ecs.csus.edu
 (August 1989)

-----------------------------------


This is a version of the Decus cpp which has been modified to run on
the Amiga.  The bootstraping and porting process is not real straight-
forward, and in fact required the resources of a Unix system cpp since
neither Manx nor Lattice could properly deal with the cpp source code
before preprocessing.  Thus, it may require some work and ingenuity
to recreate the supplied executable!

This cpp predefines "amiga" as opposed to "AMIGA".  This is a somewhat
belated attempt to coerce the Amiga world into following the convention
of other C environments that the system predefines are lowercase to avoid
clashes with user predefines, which are uppercase by convention.

A hacked up version of my Unix like cc frontend that knows about the
cpp is also supplied, for the Manx compiler.

I was holding this back until I had a copy of the public domain C
compiler and assembler to go along with it, but since these two items
appear to be unreleasable for the immediate future, decided to go ahead
and release the cpp now.

-Fred
