

                        Whap! Helper  -  9 Aug 90


   Here are some "improvements" made to the Helper:

        - Scripts Editor v1.0: New! Will let you edit the 3 scripts files
                               that Whap! use (if you need them to access
                               CompuServe) with the 3 phone numbers found
                               in the Whap! parameters.

        - Catalog Zapper v1.1, F-Keys Editor v1.1, Signatures Editor v1.1:
                               Mostly "cosmetic" fixes to improve
                               user interface. (You don't have to use
                               the mouse to go from field to field. Use 
                               the <CR> if you want).
                               The Book Editor is still v1.0.

        
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


			Whap! Helper  -  3 Jul 90


   Whap! Helper is a CanDo deck that is used to help Whap! users in four
   ways:

	
   	- Catalog Zapper: Will delete (if you want to) the .CAT files that
			  Whap! create for its Forum Catalogs (The C
			  button in Whap!) Ex: If you catalog LIB 1
			  of AmigaTech, you will have an AmigaTech.CAT
			  in your WHAP: Msgs path. This file get bigger
			  everytime you do a catalog of a library. There
			  is no way to delete it from within Whap! Catalog
			  Zapper will show you these files and ask you if
			  you want to delete them, and delete them for
   			  you. Catalog Zapper need to know where you keep
			  your msgs, so it will keep this information in
			  a text file called Where.Cat in you WHAP: direc-
			  tory. The first time you use Whap! Helper it
			  will display an error message asking you
			  to use the Config function in the pull-down
			  menu. You only have to do this once.

	- Book Editor:    This Book is a text file in your WHAP: directory
			  that contains all the names, User ID and 
			  comments that you use when you want to send a
			  message (The W button). You can use
			  the Book Editor if you want to manually 
			  enter this information.		

	- Signatures Ed:  The Signatures Editor will help you change or
			  create 2 files: WHAP:Signature and
			  WHAP:E.Signature. Signature is the signature that
			  Whap! add to every message that you send to
			  a Forum User. The E.Signature is the same but
			  is used only for Electronic Mail.  	

	- F-Keys Editor:  Used to modify/create the Function Keys that are
			  enabled when you Write a message. The text for
			  each of these keys is kept in 10 differents
			  files in the WHAP: directory: F1 to F10. 

        NOTE: If you use DeckBrowser to run this deck, you must change
              the Default Tool of the deck icon to C:Deckbrowser with
              the Workbench Info command from the pull down menu. The
              Default Tool is DeckRunner.

	If you need more help, there is a help menu for each of these
	functions in the deck. Also, you can just drop me a line:


	     Denis  Blondeau               CompuServe ID: 73027,2407
