`AmigaE-Gui' is Copyright (C) 1998 by Friedhelm Bunk. All rights reserved.
The use of this program is at your own risk.
The author assumes no responsibility or liability for
any damage or losses resulting from the use of this software.
The source is free if you give me a information of using it, or part of it.
It includes the Modul execbase ( changed for recognize 68060 ) 
and testcpu ( test with cpu/fpu kickstart/workbench is used ).

Sorry only short description of program. 

Short description of AmigaE Gui.

Prefs Window:
   To open the prefs window click on the "Open Prefs"  button, close it with
   the "Close Prefs" button.
   With the string gadget "Editor" you set the path and name of your editor.
   With the string gadget "EC" you set the path and name of the compiler EC 
   The path of. EC is also used for the debugger EDBG  the profiler AProf and
   for Flushcache. The names must be the original names.
   With the string gadget "E-Guide" you set a amiga-guide-file witch is shown 
   when you click the "Help" button in the main window.
   The checkbox gadget "Time" turns the time shown in the main window on and off.
   The checkbox gadget "Auto Save" turns the auto save function at program 
   end on and off.
   On saves the actual settings and the source and program settings at program
   end to the path set with the toggle gadget "ENV:     ENVARC:"
   The checkbox gadget "Rexx + EC"  sets if a arexx script ( start with the 
   program RX from the rexxc directory , with source as parameter) is run before 
   the EC command is done in the main window.
   The script name and path is set with the "Rex Script" string gadget.

Main Window:
   The "Editor" button runs the editor and gives him as parameter the source
   with is set with the "Source" string gadget.
   If you set a source with the "Source" string gadget the program checks if 
   the description .e is set. With a auto function it sets the same name and 
   path as program name , with the removed .e description .
   You can set a program name and path with the "Program" string gadget..
   With the "Options" string gadget you set the options of the compiler EC.
   With the button gadget at the left side of a string gadget  you open a
   ASL-requester to chose a name and path. The result is automatic set in the 
   string gadget.
   The EC button gadget runs the compiler and gives him the source and
   compile-options.If you have set in the prefs window rexx+EC on, before
   EC the program starts the arexx-script set in "Rex Script" .
   The "Flushcache" button runs the flushcache program.
   The "Profiler" button starts the profiler with the source name as option.
   The "EDBG" button starts the debugger with  program name as option.

The menu functions are the same as the button functions only Quit and save
to ENVARC are new.
Quit what else, closes the program.
Save ENVARC saves the actual settings to ENVARC.
At program end the program saves the actual settings to ENV/ENVARC this
contains on the setting in the prefs window save to.

Have a nice day
Horsten, Germany 09.02.98
