



In this document you will find the product information about Fed-CASE
and a small manual to explain the basic functions off the flowchart-
editor.

This demo version is freely distributable. The archive may not be
modified.

If you want information about a distributor of Fed-CASE in your
country, write to
 
		Joosen Software Development
		Dr. J.M. den Uylstraat 32
		4908 CT Oosterhout (N-Br)
		The Netherlands
		
		Tel. (31) 1620 35348

		e-mail:	christian@ecl008.adsp.sub.org





Product information FED-CASE
----------------------------


What is it about?

FED-CASE(©) for the Amiga is a software tool that can assist 
the design of software. 

FED-CASE(©) consists of a graphical environment 
to design flows the  flowchart editor and a source code 
generator that generates C source code.

FED-CASE(©) package consists of a clearly written manual and 
the software. De manual consists of 160 pages.
The software runs on any amiga with 1 Mb of memory. 
FED-CASE(©) can run under all available Amiga operating 
system releases. FED-CASE(©) is full compatible with Amiga OS 3.x, 
and will have the same look and feel as OS 2.0 and upwards.

FED-CASE(©) is easy to use and has logical symbols to define 
the design. 
Because of the fact that FED-CASE(©) represents the design 
in a graphical way the designer has a better overview 
of the function he/she is designing. 
A lot of companies are designing their products from flowchart 
sequence diagrams, these diagrams are drawn manually 
with the aid of rulers. 
Using the FED-CASE(©) flowchart editor will cut down 
their design time.

With the build in printer facilities they will get a better 
documentation of their product. 
One other benefit of using the tool is that maintenance 
costs will decrease considerably. 

Figures from earlier researches point out that 25-40% of all 
costs made in software engineering are maintenance activities.

Although FED-CASE(©) is running on amiga computer systems, 
the generated code can be used to be compiled for any other 
C compiler on any computer system.

Features:

The flowchart editor offers a graphical environment 
to the designer that gives him the possibility to create 
flowcharts. 
All symbols are on display. 
A number of functions are implemented to edit the flowchart
(insert, move, delete, connect, undo, etcetera). 
A main part of the function can be accessed by menu, 
keyboard short-cut or on display gadgets.

A text editor enables the designer to add text to the symbols. 

The print option makes a paper copy of the flowcharts. 
The flowcharts are divided into chapters and pages so that 
good documentation is guaranteed. 

The paper copy can also be made in such a manner that it is 
possible to use company paper with headings.

FED-CASE(©) is a fully localized application. 
This means that it can be adapted to any kind of 
natural language. 

FED-CASE will determine what kind of video system it is running
on. It will switch to the appropriate system (NTSC/PAL).
Under OS >2.0 it uses the display database.

The package comes along with a number of localized languages, 
but it can be easily adapted to any other language by the user.

It is possible to invoke the code generator from the flowchart
editor and view the results in your favourite text editor.

The FED-CASE(©) code generator generates C-source code according 
to the C source code definition. This is including the 
declaration and prototyping part of the source code.
The code generator will automatically do the type casting and
argument checking.
An auto-comment function will take care of commenting the C source
code with all kind of helpfull information. The source code
generator will take care of the includes and put all the required
includes into the source code.

So you can generate code for any C compiler on any 
target machine. 
It is possible to generate source code for a C compiler 
on an UNIX operating system or a PC operating system.

FED-CASE(©) can be installed on harddisk using Commodore's installer.


FED-CASE, FED-CASE sourcerer,FED-CASE editor are trademarks of
Joosen Software Development, all other brands and product names are
trademarks of their respective holders.
							
		


Overview of the functions in the flowchart editor.
--------------------------------------------------

To start the program you can click on the icons in the workbench.
If you want to enter the commands from the CLI enter the command
name with no option or filenames. The build in help function will give the 
correct syntax or options. You can also enter "type s:fdc.help" to get the
same help printout.
 
You can move the symbol cursor around by using the cursor-keys, the NUM-pad
or the mouse pointer.
The home, ctrl-home, end, control-end, page down, page up work in the
usual way.

You can enter a symbol by using the <enter>-key, mouse button or the
insert-gadget in the symbol window.

To delete symbols move de cursor over the symbol and press the <D>-key

To connect symbols press the <C>-key. In the status window a message 
will prompt you to select the first symbol to connect from and once 
selected it will prompt you to move the cursor to the symbol to connect to.

To add text to a symbol first move the cursor to the right position and
press the <T>-key a small text editor will be available.

To open a flow in a current window press the <O>-key
The filerequester appears and you can select a file.

The <u>-key undos the last action

When you press the <h>-key the chapter edit window opens and you 
can add or rename chapters.

If you want to copy a part of the flowchart you can move the cursor to 
the right position. You can do this by using the cursor keys or to move 
the mouse pointer to the symbol position you want and press the right 
mouse button. Hereafter you should  press the <F1>-key. The  program will 
buffer the sequence following the cursor. You can also access this option 
from the menu. To use the menu you have to move the mouse to the top of 
the screen and push and hold the right button on your mouse. The top line 
will change color and reveal a list of items. Move to the symbol menu and 
go down with the mouse. The menu items will change color, when the copy  
field changes color you should release the mouse-button.

To paste the buffered sequence move to the position where you would like 
to insert the sequence. The new position can also be in a different flowchart 
edit window. Just select the window  and move the cursor to the desired 
position. and press the <F2>-key.  You can also access this option from 
the menu. 

You cannot start code generation from the flowchart editor in the demo
version of the flowchart editor. The code generator is in the same
directory as the flowchart editor. To generate the source code of
one of the examples type in the shell: code <name of flow>.
Press the help keys to view the generated source code.
The program 'more' must be accessable.

If you are on a label symbol you can jump to the other end by pressing 
the <F4>-key . The program will try to find the other label symbol position 
and display the page with the cursor on the other label symbol. 

Sometimes it is good that you can copy an entire page. A copied page will 
be buffered and can be inserted where you would like it to have. Also in 
an other flowchart edit window. If the current page is the one to be copied, 
just press  the <F6>-key. The page is now copied into a special page buffer.
It is also possible to copy the page from the menu.

To move to the previous page you can press the <F9>-key.
The flowchart editor will move to the previous page. Adjust the page number 
in the top border of the flowchart edit window and draw the flowchart in it.

To move to the next pages you  can press the <F10>-key.       
The flowchart editor will move to the next page. Adjust the page number in 
the top border of the flowchart edit window and draw the flowchart in it.

If you want to create a new chapter you can press the <H>-key
and you will come  in the chapter edit window. You can also access the chapter 
edit window if you use the menu. To do this move the mouse pointer to the top 
of the screen and hold the right mouse button . Move to the chapter menu and 
move to the edit field. Release the mouse button and the chapter edit window 
will be on display.

To print a flowchart on a printer you must enter the <P>-key on the keyboard. 
The flowchart editor will use the default printer that you have defined in 
your preferences of your amiga system. After this you will be in the printer 
window within this window you can change some of the page definitions. 
The flowchart editor will print on every page the author's name, the name 
of the flowchart, the date of creation and the revision. You can change 
these options. If you do not want these fields printed leave them blank. 
You can also print the flowchart starting a certain page and let the printing 
stop at a certain page.

If you want to exit the current flowchart, you can press the <X>-key on your 
keyboard. The flowchart editor will terminate the current flowchart, if 
there have been changes the flowchart editor will prompt you if this 
flowchart should not be saved before exiting. If you do not want to save 
you can select the YES-gadget. If you select the NO-gadget the system will 
display a file-requester.
