Welcome to Version 1.2 of the Amiga Draco compiler. This version is a
significant upgrade from the previously released compiler, as you can see
by reading the accompanying 'changes.doc' file. I do apologize to the Draco
fans out there for how long it has taken to get this new version out. I
hope you find it worth the wait.

Note that this is not a stand-alone release. There is little in the way of
documentation or sample programs in this release. For those, you must refer
to the previous release, which is most easily found on Fred Fish's disks
number 76 and 77. Disk 77 contains the documentation and samples.

As with the previous release, this compiler, libraries, etc. are shareware
- use them as you wish, but consider sending a contribution if you use them
a lot. My only restriction is that I not be held responsible for anything
and that no part of this package be used in a commercial programming
language system without my explicit written permission.

I've had letters from all over the world about Draco (and some about Amiga
Empire as well), and I love to hear from users. So far, I have tried to
answer each letter I've received, but I'm currently about 6 months behind
in those answers (I kept thinking that Draco would be ready any day, so I
wanted to delay answering until after that day). If the bulk of mail
increases drastically with this release (I can always hope!) I may have to
cut back to only replying to those who make a significant shareware
contribution. Thus, if you have questions that you need answering, make
sure that you've sent $10.00 or more at some point (I do keep track). I
would like to again give special thanks to those two individuals (one in
Canada, one in France) who sent over $100.00 - they will be getting this
new release direct from me.

If you find this Draco compiler system to be of use to you, please consider
sending a letter and perhaps a small shareware contribution to me, the
author. This is the chief way I have of knowing who is using it, and what
they like or don't like about what I am doing. Encouragement is the surest
way to get more features, like maybe a symbolic debugger. This is certainly
how the floating point support came about, since I don't use it myself.

Send letters, etc. to:

	Chris Gray
	Apt. #1612, 8515-112 St.
	Edmonton, Alberta
	CANADA	T6G 1K7

Beware if you try to phone me: I keep strange hours, and my single phone
line is often used with a modem to run Amiga Empire.

Some stuff that I've started on that could eventually be released:

    IFF reader/writer library
	currently I also have showILBM and play8SVX programs. I plan to set
	the library up so that it can be used to post/retrieve clips as
	well as read/write to files. I've included the programs 'showILBM'
	(hasn't been tried with overscan, HAM, etc., but does DPaint's
	colour cycling properly), 'play8SVX' and iffCheck. The first two
	work from CLI or WorkBench, the second only from CLI.

    intuiTools library
	greatly simplifies menu creation, has an automatic colour palette
	editor, has string requesters, and perhaps a file requester.
