                      CLR  Licenceware
                      ****************



EDUCATION  AND  HOBBIES  SOFTWARE
*********************************

CLE 001   TOTAL CONCEPTS: DINOSAURS   2 disks - $8.95
     The "Total Concepts" educational disks contain lots of 
information and pictures on the title subject.  All the text 
is in a large font, so even those with a fuzzy TV will have 
no trouble reading.  Superb presentation which was well 
received in the press.  This set deals with early life on 
earth.

CLE 002   TOTAL CONCEPTS: GEOLOGY   2 disks - $8.95           
     Volcanoes, earthquakes, formation of the earth's crust.  
All the more exciting and interesting parts of the subject.  
Dozens of pages of information and pictures!

CLE 003   TOTAL CONCEPTS: SOLAR SYSTEM   3 disks - $9.95
     The latest title in this series invites you to learn 
all about the solar system, with information on all of the 
planets, and with some of the pictures supplied and 
authorised by NASA. This makes an excellent educational 
package for children.   

CLE 004   KIDDIES COLOUR PAD   1 disk - $6.95        
     This is a colouring book for young children, and they 
won't get in a mess using it!  It is very simple to use with 
full instructions with the program.  Simply pick a picture 
and colour it in! Includes a save option, so once you have 
coloured your picture, you can save it out to a disk to 
print out using DPaint, etc.

CLE 005   ACHORD   1 disk - $6.95
     A great program if you want to learn the guitar and you 
own an Amiga.  This program will help you tune the guitar, 
plus give you lots of chords to learn, includes showing the 
correct fingers, etc.  Being the Amiga, not only does it 
show the chords, you can hear them as well.

CLE 006   TAMI (The Amos Maths Instructor)   1 disk - $6.95 
     Excellent maths instructor program. Functions include: 
area (circle, ellipse, hexagon, octagon, parallelogram, 
pentagon, etc.), money calculations, inequalities, quadratic 
equations, simultaneous equations, volumes (prisms, 
cylinder, cone, sphere), trigonometry (Pythagoras, sine, 
cosine, tangent).  Controls enable you to select the unit of 
measurement, decimal places, VAT rate, and Pi value.  
Instructions for quadratic equations, simultaneous equations 
and inequalites.

CLE 007   TOTAL CONCEPTS: FRESHWATER FISHING   2 disks -   
          $8.95  
     This is the first offering in the "hobbies series" from 
Total Concepts.  Descriptions of barbel, bream, carp, chub, 
dace, eels, perch, pike, roach, rudd, tench and zander. 
Which tackle and method is recommended for catching each 
species. Plus a section on baits: boilies, bread, casters, 
cheese, deadbait, groundbait, maggots, paste, plugs, 
sweetcorn, and worms. This is a must for anglers.  
 
CLE 008   NIGHT SKY   1 disk - $6.95
     This program is a light introduction to the night sky 
for the user who wishes to find their way around the night 
sky.  Features over 1500 stars, the sun, the moon, and 
planets. Can be displayed as seen from any part of the 
Earth.  Large scrolling screen, mouse or keyboard 
controlled.  Click on any displayed object for information.  
Up to minute information on solar objects.  Full 
documentation on disk - access via CLI/Shell or use SID.
 
CLE 009   WORDS `N' LADDERS   1 disk - $6.95
     An excellent spelling program for 2 players, human or 
computer. Each player has a chance to look at a word for 8 
to 1 seconds, and the time gets shorter and the words get 
longer if the player spells the words correctly.  The player 
who reaches the top of the ladders board is the winner.  The 
winner is rewarded by a sub-game of trying to flood the 
computer or other player.  The program has 10,000 words so 
some of the words are quite long.  However, the program will 
select the words appropriate to the level of the player 
(i.e. it will use shorter words and allow more time). It 
will also provide a hard copy to a printer, if connected, 
for parents or teachers to check the user's performance.

CLE 010   BASICALLY  AMIGA   3 disks - $9.95
     A complete AmigaDOS reference "book" giving details on 
all the Dos1 and Dos2 Shell commands.  There is an 
interactive Workbench simulation called "HyperBENCH", aimed 
at those who are very new to the Amiga - this provides an 
artifical Workbench environment with a simple 
point-and-click information system. The main program - the
encyclopedia file, that is so large, has been split up into 
smaller parts which are linked via a menu system.  There are 
sections on graphics, hardware, software, sound, etc.

CLE 011   LET'S LEARN   1 disk - $6.95 
     This software is intended to combine learning and fun, 
and is aimed broadly at children in the 5 to 7 age range. 
SUMS - in this game the child is presented with simple sums.  
Levels 1 to 3 are addition, while levels 3 and 4 introduce 
subtraction. TUNES - the only option with no levels.  The 
child selects a tune from a menu of 17 tunes.  As the tune 
loads the colour coded notes of the tune are drawn on 
musical staves.  The child can then click on the keys of the 
8 note keyboard, displayed below the music, to play the 
tune. CODES - the idea is to work out what the codeword is 
from the numbers displayed. OPPOSITES - in this game the 
child is asked to enter the opposite word to the one 
displayed. SQUARES - a grid of squares is displayed on the 
left of the screen with some of the squares coloured in.  On 
the right is a blank grid, and the idea is to make this grid 
look the same as the one on the left. All options, except 
"TUNES" progress through five levels of difficulty. If a 
level is completed satisfactorily, then a picture of a 
farmyard scene is displayed with a new animal being 
introduced after each level.

CLE 012   ALPHABET TEACH   1 disk - $6.95
     An excellent program to familiarise young children with 
the alphabet.  Suitable pre-school to 6 or 7 year old.  The 
child is shown a picture of an object. Also on the screen is 
the name of the object, but the first letter of the word is 
missing, and the child has to add the correct letter.  A 
nicely presented program. 

CLE 013   HOME BREW   1 disk - $6.95
     This is comes under the heading of hobbies!  If you've 
not tried making your own wine, this disk should help to get 
you started. Main headings are wine recipes (18 of them), 
fermentation, problems, basic tools, hints & tips. Can 
recommend home made wines made with natural ingredients - 
much nicer than the stuff you can buy in cans for home 
brewing.
 
CLE 014   TOTAL CONCEPTS: ECOLOGY   3 disks - $9.95
     At last! The long awaited ecology title from "Total 
Concepts". Ecology is a science which deals with the 
relationship between living things and the surroundings in 
which they live. This TC is an overview of this life from 
the very beginning to, and if we don't get our together - 
it's the end!  An excellent program. 

CLE 015   FAST FRET   1 disk - $6.95
     This disk consists of a set of exercises for the guitar 
that are designed to improve your fluency, accuracy, and 
speed.

CLE 016   HISTORY 1: KINGS AND QUEENS   2 disks - $8.95
     This program covers every British king and queen since 
the first recorded monarch. It gives details of each in turn 
including the most important contributions made to the 
country by each. Included are separate family trees for each 
family, and there is also a quick quiz - all answers are 
contained somewhere in the text.

CLE 017   THINGAMAJIG   1 disk - $6.95
     By Len Tucker - this program was previously released on 
the Deja Vu label. This is a disk of jigsaws puzzles for 
young children - it contains 24 pictures. There are two 
levels of play, easy or hard. The easy option has a line 
drawing of the picture, and the child just has to match the 
shape with the appropriate piece, which is dragged across 
using the mouse and placed in the correct position. The 
piece can be de-selected by using the right mouse button. 
The hard version shows the finished picture, which then 
disappears, and you have to proceed as you would with a 
normal jigsaw.

CLE 018   WORK AND PLAY   1 disk - $6.95
     By Len Tucker - This disk contains three educational 
games for young children.  CLICK CLOCK - for teaching 
children to tell the time. FUNTIMES TABLES - multiplication 
tables.  LET'S GO SHOPPING - teaches simple division and 
multiplication.  Ex-Deju Vu title.

CLE 019   PLAY IT SAFE   1 disk - $6.95
     Another excellent program from Len Tucker aimed at 
young children to teach safety in the home, on the street, 
in the park, and in the car.  Parental guidance is 
recommended for very young children, so that suituations can 
be explained more fully and perhaps talked over with the 
child. There are 5 dangers in each location, 9 locations in 
all, and with the help of Teddy the child has to pick out 
the dangers. The program contains random elements so it can 
be played over and over. Age group 3 to 10 years.  Ex-Deja 
Vu title.

CLE 020   BIG TOP FUN   1 disk - $6.95
     Yet another program from Len Tucker. Four educational 
programs set in the environment of the circus.  WORD BALANCE 
- for children who are just learning to read. A juggler on a 
unicycle rides into the ring, balancing a block with a word 
on it.  The child has to select the picture to match the 
word. There are three levels of difficulty.  MATCHPLAY - 
pairs game. Match pairs of cards. SEAL-A-GRAMS - targeted at 
children who already read, and will help with spelling.  The 
seals are bouncing balls containing a letter on their noses,  
and the child has to rearrange the letters to spell the word 
correctly. BALLOON BURST - the clown in the game has to 
shoot the lettered balloons to make a word. Ex-Deja Vu 
title.

CLE 021   JIGMANIA   1 disk - $6.95
     Two programs by Len Tucker - a jigsaw program and a 
construction kit to make your own jigsaws to use within 
Jigmania. Two levels, one for children and one for adults.  
Already on the disk are several jigsaws, just to get you 
started. Ex-Deja Vu title.
 
CLE 022   CHESS TEACHER   1 disk - $6.95
     By William Jordan. Chess Teacher is designed to teach 
chess in a fun and easy-to-understand way. It is suitable 
for the complete beginner, and also the casual player. The 
author is a very experienced player, coming 5th in the 1992 
Australian Championships.
      
CLE 023   MIND YOUR LANGUAGE   1 disk - $6.95
A self-improvement vocabulary course by J. Barry Flodman. He 
states that, dictionaries in book form are more useful for 
defining words if you can understand the definitions. In 
this program, the left hand list contains commonly misspelt 
word variations, and it also contains words which have more 
than one correct spelling.  The more commonly used spelling 
comes first.  The right hand list contains words that are 
similar in spelling and/or sound, and the author gives the 
most simple explanations possible and, where necessary, 
gives a sample sentence to show how to use the words you are 
looking up. Well presented, and an easy-to-understand 
program.        

CLE 024   SPEED READING   3 disks - $9.95
     This program, written by a teacher (J. Barry Flodman), 
is designed to be an aid to improve reading skills. The set 
of disks contain exercises, etc., to build up your reading 
speed.

CLE 025   CHORD COACH   1 disk - $6.95
     No, this program isn't a guitar tutor - this is a 
tutorial aid for the piano.

CLE 026   SNAP   1 disk - $6.95
A program for young children (pre-school). The child is 
shown a picture, and has to match the shape of the outline 
to one of four smaller pictures.

CLE 027   C.A.T.T.   3 disks - $9.95     
     The Complete Amiga Tarot Translator. If you are 
interested in the Tarot, this is a program for you. You are 
asked to concentrate on the screen, whilst thinking of the 
thing you want a reading on. The cards are dealt, and you 
are then presented with a translation of what the cards 
mean. The program supports a printer option. Note that when 
the program asks if you are using an unexpanded A500+/A600, 
answer "Y" if the expansion is FAST ram - the program is 
looking for extra CHIP memory, and will crash if you answer 
"N".

CLE 028   FUN WITH CUBBY   1 disk - $6.95
     By Aaron McCormick. This is for young children, and 
represents very good value for money. There are eight 
programs on the disk: "Let's Spell" - you are shown a 
picture and three words, and you have to select, with the 
mouse, the correct spelling. "Memory Game" - a simple pairs 
game. "Paint Studio" - a nice little drawing and painting 
program. Commands include: draw (freehand drawing), paint 
(fill with colour), line, box, circle, oops!, drain, clear, 
load/save pic. Just the thing to keep a child amused for 
ages!  Well you can hope... "Count with Cubby" - you have to 
help Cubby with his homework, and you have to pick the 
correct answer out of three options. The are three levels of 
difficulty, and addition, substraction, multiplication and
division. "Apple Catcher" - a nice little game where you 
have to help Cubby catch the apples, and if an apple falls 
to the ground the game is over. If a lot of apples are 
caught, you move to the next level. The game is simple 
enough for a very young child. "Typing Tutor" - there are 
three levels. In level one, you only have to type a letter. 
In level two, you can type in words. In level three, you 
have to type in a whole sentence. "Puzzler" - you are shown 
a picture on the left of the screen, but this picture is 
jumbled up. You have to place the nine pieces in the correct 
place, on the right of the screen. "Cubby's Lost" - can you 
help Cubby escape from the maze? The disk contains full 
instructions for all the programs.
        
CLE 029   PREHISTORIC FUN PACK   1 disk - $6.95
     By Steve Bennett. These programs were written for 
children. Fun Pack should possibly be listed in the games 
catagory, but some of the games just might be regarded as 
educational. "Dino Slider" is a version of the numbered 
tiles squares puzzle. "Dinosaw" a jigsaw-memory game. Fit 
the pieces in the correct spaces. Try to fit as many as you 
can with pressing "help". "Snakes and Caves" is the old 
favourite - Snakes and Ladders - which Steve has tried to 
make as interesting as he can. "Eggtinct" (Extinct) - this 
is again written for the younger child. The idea is to jump 
over the water and monsters, collecting the missing eggs as 
you go. You do not die, but are placed back at the start of 
the screen when you hit something you shouldn't. The 
challenge for the child is to plan each move to get the next 
egg, avoiding the baddies on the way. Ex-Deja Vu title.

CLE 030   PEG A PICTURE   1 disk - $6.95
     By Steve Bennett. This is a program for the younger 
child. The child can choose either a coloured peg or shape,   
to place on the peg main screen, and so construct a picture 
or pattern. There is a save/load option. Full instructions 
on the disk.

CLE 031  UNDERSTANDING AMOS 2     2 disks - $8.95
     By Steve Bennett. This title is a must for anyone 
interested in learning how to program using AMOS. The main 
idea of these disks was to help you with Bobs but as there 
was enough space left on the disks, Steve has included many 
other small procedures which deal with other routines. Disk 
2 of the set, contains demo programs and needs AMOS to run.

CLE 032   SPITFIRE   2 disks - $8.95
     Learn about the development of the Spitfire, the 
various versions, the cockpit, armament, markings, combat 
record, and above all, hear the roar of the Merlin engine!  
Nice.

CLE 033   MESSERSCHMITT Bf109   2 disks - $8.95               
     Companion program to "Spitfire". Subjects covered are 
the development, marks, the cockpit, armament, engines, 
markings, camouflage, and combat.

CLE 034   YOUR FIRST PONY   2 disks - $8.95
     This program is intended only as a rough guide to 
looking after your pony and his health. Some of the topics 
covered are choosing your pony, grooming, keeping your pony 
at grass or in a stable, shoes and shoeing, conformation 
health of the horse, etc. Several jigsaws, just to get you 
started.  Ex-Deja Vu title.



GAMES
*****

CLG 001   THE ADVENTURES OF NORRIS   1 disk - $6.95  
     "Atmospheric platform game". An excellent platform game 
that is bursting with "middle ages" atmosphere, and all the 
qualities that you would expect to find in a commercial game 
of this nature. Guide Norris through the woods and 
underground caverns, plus collect keys, etc., and solve
puzzles. Not an easy task!

CLG 002   DARK THINGS   1 disk - $6.95
     "Tricky and skillful game". Another platform game, that 
requires more skill in avoiding the nasties than anything 
else. Great introduction, tricky game to master.

CLG 003   PHASE 2   1 disk - $6.95
     "A fine horizontal shoot-em-up". A good horizontal 
shoot-em-up of a quality to rival any commercial product.  
This is more a thinking man's blast, than a hectic shoot 
everything and hope for the best game. All the usual 
refinements you expect to find: power-ups, etc., and nice 
smooth graphics. Perhaps a bit slow for the "maniac".

CLG 004   X-SYSTEM   1 disk - $6.95
     "A combination of various arcade games". Not so much 
one game, but five totally different games in one. Your 
mission, and it's not easy, is to infiltrate and destroy
the Borg. An element of most arcade games are here somewhere 
- shoot-em-up, platform, and asteroids, or at least avoiding 
them. Be warned, your task here is not an easy one, only the 
strong survive.

CLG 005   TRUCKIN' ON 2   2 disks (2 drives req'd) - $8.95    
     "Superb pictures, variation of a classic theme". When 
the Amiga was not very old, a game was released called
Ports of Call, the idea was to run an international shipping
company. This game is very similar, except instead of ships 
on the ocean, you have trucks driving around Australia! As 
usual in this kind of game, you start at the bottom, with a 
truck that is held together by the paint on the rust, but 
with a bit of luck and good business sense, you can soon 
have your very own, brand new Mack! As a little sub-plot, 
any spare cash you have can be invested in the stock market, 
so your attention is always on the game. A bugged, and 
slower running version of this can be found in the public 
domain, so if you like the game but were frustrated before, 
now's your chance to upgrade. Up to 4 players.

CLG 006   OBLITERATION   1 disk - $6.95
     "Superb fast and original arcade game!". What a superb 
game this is! With a few more levels, it could easily have 
been a commercial product. Take a room, two screens wide, 
add a typical asteroids type rock which bounces around 
inside the room, then add you, the player, who has to clear
the asteroids with your laser cannon. The problem is, as you
shoot, the rocks will divide.

CLG 007   Withdrawn

CLG 008   DRAGON TILES   1 disk - $6.95
     "An excellent version of a classic puzzle game!". If a 
game is a few thousand years old, yet is still played, then
it has to be good! Originality obviously isn't the key here, 
but "Dragon Tiles" has been the cause of dozens of hours 
lost in front of the screen. The game is simple in concept, 
with 120 patterned tiles piled on each other in various 
layouts. The tiles have 30 different designs on them, and 
have to be removed from the board in matching pairs. There 
is a similar commercial game called "Shanghai", and a couple 
of similar PD games, but none of them have the variation of 
"Dragon Tiles". The main great advantage in this game is the 
easily recognisable designs on the tiles, not like the 
complicated chinese symbols found on others. You may well
have seen, played and enjoyed the PD version of this, but 
this one has 30 levels, and features a repeat last game, or 
for the really tricky levels a password to re-call the game 
next time.

CLG 009   MOTOR DUAL   1 disk - $6.95
     "Battle head to head when linking two Amigas". Once 
again, this is a extension of a PD game called "Battle 
Cars", but the name has been changed, to avoid confusion 
with a Deja Vu title. Although this game can be a one player 
game, for the best enjoyment and excitement, two Amigas need 
to be linked with a null modem cable. You are in control of 
one of two cars that race, and dual in a choice of four 
different arenas.

CLG 010   FUTURE SHOCK   1 disk - $6.95
     Use joystick to guide your spinning ball around the 
screen. Avoid the walls and electrified pressure pads.  
Collect the red batteries and yellow E's. Ten of each to be 
collected to advance to the next level. Passwords for levels 
after level one. Tricky game. Written and compiled in AMOS.   
Documentation on disk accessed via CLI.

CLG 011   ALL GUNS BLAZING   1 disk - $6.95
     Two player car racing game. You can also blast the 
other player's car with missiles, lay mines, oil slicks, and 
smoke. You can also design your own tracks.

CLG 012   BULLDOZER BOB   1 disk - $6.95
     Now this is my type of game. The object of the game is 
to clear the screen of coloured blocks by pushing them 
together. You push the blocks with the help of Bob and his 
Bulldozer, and once the blocks touch they disappear. You 
have a limited number of moves to clear the screen. The game 
starts off with a number of easy levels, just so that you 
can get the hang of the game, then you really have to start 
thinking. If you like puzzle games, this is one for you.
Full instructions on disk.

CLG 013   PARADOX   1 disk - $6.95
     Another excellent puzzle game - similar in a way to 
"Bulldozer Bob", except Mr. Cool Head is doing the pushing.  
You have to push the coloured balls until they touch and 
disappear. You have a time limit for each screen (100 of 
them). There are also a variety of objects to collect, but 
beware of traps! Very addictive! The hi-scores are 
automatically saved to disk - so leave the disk write 
enabled. Make a backup copy of the disk for your own use
only!  Remember piracy is a crime.

CLG 014   SONIC SMARTIEHEAD   1 disk - $6.95
     This is one for the kids - 8 years and upward.

CLG 015   SPLODGE - THE ESCAPE!   1 disk - $6.95    
     A tricky and addictive platform game. The story - 
Splodge was going on a holiday to Gannymede when the 
spacebus on which he was travelling was hi-jacked by the Big 
Hairy Monsters, and you have to help Splodge escape from 
Triton, where he is imprisoned. Guide him through the game 
solving puzzles, avoiding enemies and collecting coins 
needed to buy a spacebus ticket home.

CLG 017   IMBRIUM - DAY OF RECKONING   1 disk - $6.95
     If you like adventure games this is a must! Imbrium is 
a large graphic adventure. The character can be moved
around using the joystick and can interact with objects on 
screen through the menu system. Load and save facility. Full  
documentation on the disk. This is one game we must find 
time to play. 
  
CLG 018   SKAN 29   1 disk - $6.95
     Can you save the planet Skan 29 from the Big Droids?  
You have to find the Big Droid at the end of each level and 
kill it. Collect tokens whilst exploring.

CLG 019   STELLAR ESCAPE   3 disks - $9.95
     Shoot 'em up. Great if you like shooting things - the 
only trouble is they shoot back!  A "Swiv-type" game.

CLG 020   JUNGLE BUNGLE   1 disk - $6.95
     By Len Tucker - this title was previously released 
under the Deja Vu label. This is an icon driven graphic 
adventure aimed at children. Excellent graphics, sampled 
sound and some animation. Documentation on disk.

CLG 021   FLOWER POWER   1 disk - $6.95
     By Len Tucker. A game aimed at children. You have to 
grow some plants for the local flower show. The bugs have 
other ideas on the matter - they want to eat the plants, and 
you have to frighten them away by waving your arms about.  
Joystick controlled. Ex-Deja Vu title.

CLG 022   STOCKING FILLERS   1 disk - $6.95
     By Sparx (Len Tucker). Collection of Christmas games 
for young children. Ex-Deja Vu title.
 
CLG 023   MARVIN THE MARTIAN   1 disk - $6.95
     By Len and Melanie Tucker. You play the part of Marvin 
looking for his girl friend, Meryl, who has been kidnapped.  
To complete the levels, you have to collect a number of 
treasure items. Scrolling maze game. Ex-Deja Vu title.

CLG 024   EASY MONEY   1 disk - $6.95
     Very nice fruit machine simulator. Documentation on 
disk.

CLG 025   WHITE RABBITS   1 disk - $6.95 
     Another frustrating puzzle solving game, from the 
author of Paradox. You have to get the white rabbit to the 
exit - use moving blocks, but take care that you don't splat 
the rabbit!

CLG 026   MONSTER ISLAND   1 disk - $6.95
     A "Dungeon & Dragons" game for kids, written by Jeff 
Tullin. The story is simple: there is a castaway on an 
island inhabited by various monsters. Find the castaway, 
take them to the radio beacon and radio for help.

CLG 027   SHYMER   1 disk - $6.95
     A graphical adventure for kids. The story: you are 
Shirley Coombes, a young girl in the employ of the famous 
detective Sherlock Holmes. Sherlock is away investigating 
another case when you receive a "phone call". It seems that 
someone has mixed up all the nursey rhymes on Nursee Island 
- someone must investigate and set things right!
 
CLG 028   TIME RIFT   1 disk - $6.95
     An excellent platform game by Simon Hitchen. The game 
is played over four time zones and covers 749 screens. The 
aim in each zone is to find and collect four crystals which, 
when brought together and activated, will transport you to 
the next zone. Full instructions on disk.



UTILITIES
*********

CLU 014   STOCK CONTROLLER   1 disk - $6.95
     Keep track of the items you have in stock - the 
programs warns you when it time to re-order goods. Printout 
facicity.

CLU 015   EPOCH VI   1 disk - $6.95
     This is the most powerful calendar system available for 
the Amiga - at least that is what the author claims. Epoch 
VI contains a 1299 year diary with powerful search 
facilities, a memo/minibase, a comprehensive address and 
phone book, etc. Full documentation on disk. Workbench 
required. 

CLU 016   X-STITCH MASTER LITE   1 disk - $6.95
     A much improved version of X-Stitch. The main aim of 
this program is to allow you to use pictures saved on disk 
as .IFF files, as the bases for counted cross stitch charts.  
Your pictures, once drawn or loaded from disk, can then have 
a portion of the screen chosen for use as a cross stitch 
pattern. Colours can be named, symbols allocated, and then 
the pattern can be printed out on your own printer as a 
familiar grid and symbol chart. This is a "cut down" version
of "X-Stitch Master". i.e. the drawing tools have been 
removed - no great loss as according to the author DPaint 
does the job better! 
 
CLU 017   LC10/LC20 FONTS   1 disk - $6.95
     Author Jeff Tullin. Fonts for your Star printer, plus a 
program to allow you to design your own fonts. Full 
documentation on disk. Needs Workbench.
 
CLU 018   LC200 FONTS   1 disk - $6.95
     Written by Jeff Tullin. Fonts for your LC200 printer, 
plus a program to enable you to design your own fonts. Full 
documentation on disk.

CLU 019   24-PIN FONTS   1 disk - $6.95
     Author Jeff Tullin. Primary written for the STAR 
LC24-200, but should work on the following: STAR FR24, XR24, 
LC24-10; EPSON LQ850, LQ860; AMSTRAD LQ3500, LQ5000; NEC 
(various); PANASONIC KXP1124 (with RAM card accessory), and 
any other 24 pin with enough memory, and EPSON LQ8** 
compatible. Documentation on disk.

CLU 020   BJ10 FONTS 2.2   1 disk - $6.95
     Author Jeff Tullin. Supports BJ10 and should also work 
on BJ10e, BJ10ex, BJ130, BJ20 and any other BJ130 
compatibles. Documentation on disk.

CLU 021   INVOICE MASTER   1 disk - $ 6.95        
     By John Dudley. This program will allow you to print 
out invoices, including VAT, it will also number the 
invoices increasing the number by one every time an invoice 
is printed. Full documentation on disk. 

CLU 022   HARD DRIVE MENU SYSTEM   1 disk - $6.95
     An excellent and very easy to use hard drive menu 
system.

************************************************************

You may order these programs from Canada's only authorised 
CLR Licenceware distributor!  All orders must be pre-paid, 
and please do not forget to include 7% PST (Manitoba 
residents only) and 7% GST (Canadian residents only).  
Canadian residents, please remit in Canadian $.  US 
residents, please remit in US $.  For mail orders, please 
enclose $3.00 to your order for postage/packing.  You may 
pay with a bank/postal money order, cash (store only), 
cheque, or MasterCard (store only).    

Remember...  Amiga Manitoba User Group (AMUG) members get 5% 
off the prices listed above.

                    SeaScape Software
                    106A-2621 Portage Ave.
                    Winnipeg, MB  
                    R3J-0P7   Canada
                    (204) 889-3357

Store hours are as follows:

Monday to Wednesday........ 10am to 6pm   note:  times are 
Thursday & Friday.......... 10am to 8pm          in the  
Saturday................... 10am to 6pm          Central
Sunday..................... CLOSED               Time Zone.



James Rhodes
SeaScape Software

************************************************************


