
                   Small Description of E_autoguide.guide
                           ©Sven Steiniger, 1996


 Introduction
--------------

 Imagine the following situation: You write a new program in AmigaE and you
 want to open a screen. Everybody now says you can do that with OpenS(). But
 do you know the Syntax? Now you open E.guide and browse through the chapters
 to find this keyword. This may take a long time.
 Wouldn't it be fine to have a online reference system? You just press a key
 and a description of the word under the cursor is shown. At the beginning of
 this year I had this idea and wrote E_autoguide.guide.

 And here are the features:
   - a own node exists for every keyword of AmigaE
   - two indeces exists: in alphabetical and syntactical order
   - heavy amount of hyperlinks. E.q. the page for String()-keyword has links
     to all string-related pages.
   - extra GoldED script for online reference


 Usage
-------

 The usage of the .guide file is easy (isn't it?). So I explain only how
 to install the arexx script. This script is written for GoldED but it should
 be easy to adapt it to other editors.

 Just copy the files 'E_autoguide.guide' and 'E_autoguide.ref' to you document
 drawer (they must be in the same directory!). Lets say this drawer is called
 'edevice:docs'.
 Now copy the file 'arexx/ged_EAutoguide.rexx' into your GoldED's directory
 for ARexx scripts.
 Within GoldED you should make a new menuitem and in the command window you 
 type in the following things:
	- as command 'GoldED:arexx/ged_EAutoguide.rexx edevice:docs' with
	  command type 'ARexx'.
	  The command consits of 2 parts: first the name of the arexx script
	  and second the path were to find 'E_autoguide.guide' and 
	  'E_autoguide.ref'

 Thats all. The Rest is done by the arexx script.
 I recommend that you add a hotkey to this menu. You then simply press the
 key and the online help pops up with a description of the word under the
 cursor.

 Read also the node 'General' within 'E_autoguide.guide' for extra
 informations.


 Notes
-------

 General

	Of course I have not written the description of the keywords but
	I took 'E.doc' and rearranged all informations to one keyword into
	one node. Then I added the hyperlinks.
	You can imagine that this was a very time expensive work.
	
	Therefore the file 'E_autoguide.guide' is ©Sven Steiniger.
	
	This package is spread as FreeWare, means everybody can use it for
	free. You can spread it freely but its not allowed to alter the
	archive or to make any profit with it.	

	BTW: I also asked Wouter if I can upload it to Aminet and he
	     said: Yes. This was in January '96 and I wanna built in the
	     new keywords of AmigaE v3.2 but I never found time to do this.
	     Therefore I upload this version for AmigaE v3.1.


 The ARexx script

	The idea of this script was taken from BURGHARD Eric's
	'ged_guideref.rexx'.
	The script simply gets the word under the cursor and then scans the
	file 'E_autoguide.ref'. Every line of this file consists of 2 parts:
	first the keyword and second the related node in the .guide file.

	If the script found a keyword it displays the related node of the
	.guide file.
	If there is no word under the cursor a small window pops up where
	you can enter the keyword. With this you can also search keywords
	that GoldED won't indicate as words like '::' or '++'.


 Disclaimer
------------

I am nore responsible for any damage or loss of data caused by this package.




Any comments, ideas, etc. are welcome. Send them via email to

	ss37@irz.inf.tu-dresden.de


Sven Steiniger.
