							Martin Mckenzie
							2 Wardie Road
							Easterhouse
							Glasgow
							G33 4NP

 Dear all,

	Well, this is my first letter to ACC so I may as well tell you
something about myself. I am 18 years old and currently at the end of
a YTS computer training course. I have been into computers and
programming for years, It started of with an Atari vcs (remember those)
God ,they were crap. I then got a spectrum +2 and started learning basic
then machine code, Eventually (two years ago) I got an amiga 500. Wow,
4096 colours, 4 channel stereo sound, multitasking, great custom chips
it was like a dream come true. I mostly played games for the first year
mainly because I didnt have a clue where to start on coding the Amiga.
( All this gibberish about devices,exec,message ports etc really confused
me)
So I went out and bought the Amiga machine language and the system
programmers guide (both by abacus) and devpac. I messed about for a quite
a few months before I discovered ACC. Now I can write programs that do
more than put a flashing red box at the top of the screen. Contributers to
ACC may notice that I use routines of theirs in my code at the moment, well
I find this is a good way to learn to code, so please dont get offended when
I use parts of your code in `my programs` (I do modify the routines and
incorporate them with others to improve my learning, and dont just copy
somebodys routine and say that it was mine.)
 
	Well enough of that, lets talk about something else. Has anyone
ever used or seen windows 3 on the PC? A lot of crap is what I think of
it. I have been using Corel draw and Pagemaker 4 under windows for the
past 6 months and I find it rather unstable to say the least. Crashes at
sudden moments are the main problem, along with its dodgy `multi-tasking`
Extra memory helped it slightly, but I find that it is very amatuerish
when compared to workbench. PC`s are in genaral CRAP. Why oh why is it
the industry standard? Amigas are far more useable and are fit for any
purpose. Okay, enough PC slagging, lets go Commodore slagging ....

	So it now seems that Commodore have scrapped the A500 in favour
of the A600, The big question is WHY?. Okay, it comes with an internal
hard drive controller (hard disk costs extra), but it offers no improvement
in technological terms over the A500. The A600 is a lot smaller and uses
Surface Mounted Technology, therefore cheaper to produce. But do Commodore
reduce the price? No, they don`t. So they will now rake in even more profit
on an already overpriced computer. How do they expect to compete as a
serious computer if it is under powered and over-priced when compared to the
new generation of PC`S. I know that Amiga is miles better than the PC, but
the pricing is extortionate to say the least. So come on Commodore, drop your
prices and stop being so greedy!
 Right, thats enough moaning, I think I`ll take a break and read a mag.

			.........


	I have just recieved the July issue of Amiga Computing, and it
seems to have restored my confidence in Commodore. I was stunned when I
read the article on the new amiga custom-chip set. It will not be
released until later this year, but Commodore has added the following:

256,000 colour Ham mode from a 24-bit palette in any resolution up to
Super hi-res (1,280 * 1,024) and dual playfields in any resolution.

The chips are now based around a 32-bit system which will offer 4 times
the normal data transfer rate to and from the screen.

Lo-res scrolling in quarter pixel increments, Vastly improved hardware
sprites and the mixing of video modes, allowing hi-res 32-pixel-wide
sprites on a lo-res screen.

This, along with the 16-bit sound chip and high density disk drives will
really push the Amiga to new extents.


	Well, after that, we shall come back to earth with a bump and I
will briefly described the supplied source.
As I am still learning, I have used snippets of many peoples routines so
take credit where its due.

Options Menu:	Just a simple program that tests the function keys 1-3
		and uses a 3 layer star-field. Pressing F3 will toggle
		that option. It incorporates simple copper shading, so
		I got 24 colours on an 8 color screen.
		NOTE: Something is wrong with this, because it trashes
		the O/S so it can only be assembled an run once!

MoveAnimBob:	A program that will move a bob with 10 frames of animation
		across the screen controlled by using the joystick.
		Note the speed of his legs!

MapScroller:	My pride and joy (If only it would work properly!). This
		is my interpretation of how vertical scrolling games are
		made. The program will set up 2 320*288 screens. The
		Bpl pointers are offset 32 lines down the visible screen
		then a row of ten blocks (each block being 32*32 pixels)
		will be blitted onto the top of the visible screen. After
		scrolling the pointers up 32 lines, the visible screen is
		copied to the hidden screen, and the process is repeated.
		A block screen of 320*256 is used where all the blocks are
		stored. The game map points to offsets in the block address
		list. This list is a list of addresses of where to find the
		blocks on the block screen. The use of this map and block
		screen can dramatically decrease the RAM needed for the
		levels in a game. The program also cookie cuts a bob which
		is controlled by the joystick.

		 Now, the problem. I hope somebody can help me with this
		because it is driving me crazy. The block routines work
		fine, and the scrolling is perfectly smooth, But when I
		cookie cutted the bob onto the screen it flashes/flickers.
		It looks as if it only flickers every 32 lines, (as you may
		remember, the whole screen is copied and a new row of ten
		blocks is blitted every 32 lines) So I thought I would need
		to double buffer the bob. But when I tried to double buffer
		the bob, all I managed to do was make the screen judder and
		the bob disapeared.  H E L P!!



	Well good-bye and thank you for making ACC so enjoyable and
informative, Keep up the good work.

			Martin Mckenzie.

