
		Drag Example

This archive contains the source of a simple BOOPSI drag Gadget.
It is not functional since there are no drop-objects defined.
I planned to create a generic class for drop objects, but
when I heard mui would get full D&D I lost my interest; up
to now there is still no reusable Drag class available,
so perhaps somebody might have an interest for this example.

The source code is presented in the file "drag.class" in a very
unusal form; to build normal C-code U first have to invoke
a sort of preparser that genaertes the Code from the class file
and another Template file, that contains the skeleton of a class ...

The "drag.class" format itself is used since I hate boring
stdt typing of thing that could eaily be done by the Computer
especially for testing and Prototypes, where I wanna be able
to concentrate to the problem.

Its major advantage is: it is short, and IMHO better readable
than plain C-Source (e.g. Attributes are packed - You can
immediately see, if a certain Attribute is e.g. settable)
OIn the other side are two Disadvantages: there is one more
generation step that increases compile times and the resulting
code is very slow since some hand optimisations cannot be
performed ... (especially the second one is a very heavy minus
since BOOPSI classes are partly run on intuition's context;
so I think that pre-code solution can not be used for bigger
projects - I don't wanna see my Amiga being as slow as a "Dose")

the archive contains two other simple examples for the preparser:
icon.class   uses a workbench icon as a gadget image
rkmbut.class is the extraction of the RKMButtonClass example
	     from the RKRM Libraries

All Examples can be compiled w/ DICE v2.07r (there might be
some warnings left however); I dunno, if there are any problems
with SAS/C; but they can surely not be compiled with GCC or
another compiler since we have to use non-std Qualifiers, that
make code non-portable ...

Please note, that for compilation/linking of drag_test
U would need the "animtools" package of CBM RKRM Libraries;
as I do not know if everybody has access to it, I have
included a stripped version of its includes and an objectfile,
so at least linking should be no problem. (Hope that is no
copyright volation ...)


If there are any questions flames etc., I can be reached via
EMail:
    noll@student.uni-kl.de	or
    b_noll@informatik.uni-kl.de

(I would be very interested, if s.o was able use it)


greetings, Bernd "0" Noll



Oh - I forgot:
    This archive is released as is and I can not be made
    responsible for any damage that is caused by it...
    (etc. etc.)

PS - please excuse that chaos - this is my 1st release
     of anything ...

