COMAL is an easy to use, yet powerful language.
It is standardized and available for many popular
computers. COMAL has become the common ground
between popular computers.

In addition to sharing common keywords, each
COMAL system provides the same programming
structures.

But it goes even further than just keywords and
structures. Each COMAL has a compatible
ENVIRONMENT. They all share the same LOOK AND
FEEL. Once you know COMAL on one computer, you
will feel right at home using COMAL on a
different computer! They share a common FRIENDLY
environment.

The built-in full screen editor makes program
entry easier. If you can see it on the screen,
you can edit it. COMAL checks each line you enter
-- WHEN YOU ENTER IT. If it sees a mistake it
tells you RIGHT AWAY, and even attempts to help
you fix it! The SCAN command checks your entire
program to verify the multi-line structures.
Before you run your program you will know that
each line and structure is proper.

When you LIST a program, COMAL automatically
indents the structures for you! It also
capitalizes the keywords but shows your variable
names in lower case. You get a very readable
program listing -- especially if you take
advantage of long variable names. You can use
names as long as the screen line permits!

COMAL also helps you fine-tune your program. A
TRACE facility helps you locate errors. The ERROR
HANDLER allows your programs not only to catch
errors, but often to correct them while the
program continues running.

You should enjoy writing programs in modules
(procedures and functions). You give each one a
name, and pass information back and forth with it
via parameters. It can be open and share all
variables with the main program or be CLOSED so
that all variables and data inside it are
considered local. An IMPORT statement allows you
access to specific variables if needed. Once you
have defined a module, you can call it from
direct mode -- just like any other COMAL keyword!
You can even call the module from inside itself
(called recursion).

Your modules are actually extending COMAL. In
fact, a module can be stored on disk as an
"external" procedure or function. Any program can
then include that module simply by adding a one
line "header". COMAL automatically gets the
module from disk when it needs it.

Packages are another method of extending COMAL.
They are usually written in machine code and are
specific to each computer. Part of the beauty of
packages is that they allow fast access to
hardware dependent features. An even greater
advantage is that you call them from COMAL by
name, just as if they were part of COMAL itself.
You can use existing packages without knowing how
they were created.

Normally, the user can stop a program by pressing
the break key (usually a <stop> or <esc> key).
However, there are times when you want to be sure
that the program is not stopped. COMAL allows the
break key to be disabled and re-enabled anywhere
within a program. Furthermore, it provides an ESC
flag to notify the program when the user presses
the break key.

Since COMAL is available on many different
computers, you need a convenient method of
transferring programs between them. The MERGE and
ENTER commands accept a program stored as an
ASCII file. Of course COMAL also provides a way
to store program lines in ASCII format: the LIST
command! You can LIST your program to any output
location: screen, printer, disk file, or even
modem.

BENCHMARK TIMINGS

We did some quick benchmark tests. The results
are shown below. The programs used are referenced
under the chart. COMAL is nearly always faster
than BASIC. This difference is significantly more
dramatic when dealing with strings. Also it seems
that AmigaCOMAL is on top between the various
COMAL implementations.

SYSTEM       AHLS   CALC  TRIG QUICK SIEVE SUBSTR

AmigaCOMAL    3.1    7.2   4.0   3.1   6.6   0.2
AmigaBASIC   12.8   16.9   7.1   4.3  16.0   5.1

IBM COMAL    10.2   32.8  26.7  17.7   8.6   0.3
IBM BASIC    14.4   55.6  46.0  21.5  39.8   9.7

C64 COMAL 2  25.5   72.9  58.2  40.7  28.0   1.0
C64 BASIC   115.7  106.4  63.3  86.1 137.4  12.3

Notes:
Ahls = Ahls test from Creative Computing magazine
Calc = Calc test from Byte magazine May 1985
Trig = Trig test from COMAL Today 12 page 38
Quick= Quick test from COMAL Today 12 page 39
Sieve= Sieve test from Byte / COMAL Today 23
Substr=Substring replacement test
Base model Amiga 500 and IBM PC used for tests.
