AmigaCOMAL is already my favorite COMAL. It is
fully Common COMAL compatible, except LINK is
performed by USE (this is actually better).

AmigaCOMAL includes all the fun of Speech and
TURTLE GRAPHICS plus it has the most advanced
COMAL features such as RECORDs and POINTERs, plus
a more advanced implementation of packages and
the error handler. It is FASTER than BASIC, yet
EASIER to use and MORE POWERFUL. It has a full
power Editor that is part of the system as well
as a gorgeous File Requestor.

AmigaCOMAL has many useful features, over and
above the standard friendly COMAL. TIME$ and
DATE$ are included, as is a built in TIMER. When
listing a program, you can stop it, and then just
by moving your cursor up to the top of the
screen, cause the program to be listed backwards
to see any lines you might have just missed. Use
<Shift> with Cursor Up and Down to page through
your program listing. When entering a program
line, as soon as you hit <Enter> the line is
checked for proper syntax. If there is an error,
the cursor is put on the point of the error, and
a message window pops up. If the line is OK, it
is immediately Re-Listed, with proper
indentation, keywords in CAPS, omitted words
filled in, = converted to :=, and so on.

Packages are a way of extending the COMAL system.
Until now, packages always had to be written in
Machine Code or Assembler. AMIGACOMAL ALLOWS YOU
TO WRITE PACKAGES IN COMAL or C as well! Now
anyone can add extensions to COMAL, WRITTEN IN
COMAL ITSELF.

For example, you may wish that COMAL had a FILE'EXISTS
function that would check if a file exists, and
a TYPE command, to type out the contents of a text
file. You can add those extensions to COMAL
yourself. We did those two as an example for you,
and include the package on the disk so you can
see how easy it was (we call the package TYPE).
All you have to do is issue the command: USE type and
AmigaCOMAL links the commands in our TYPE package
into the COMAL system. Once you do that, you can
type out any text file in direct mode (or within
a program) like this:

	TYPE("filename.txt")

The TYPE command checks with FILE'EXISTS before trying
to type out the file, so it is smart. It also can
ignore the <carriage return> in files from IBM
and C64 (Amiga uses only <line feed> at end of
line).

There are many packages on the AmigaCOMAL system
disk. To see what new commands are in a package,
type:

	USE packagename
	LISTPACK packagename

There also is an INSERT MODE for program editing,
just like with a word processor. You also can
open a blank line anywhere on the screen (nice to
type in the line you wish to add to the program).
Also FIND and CHANGE commands are included to
make it easier to edit your program.

Other nice expanded features include WAIT. The
command WAIT 5 will wait 5 seconds. The command WAIT
will wait for a keypress or mouse click. Both are
very handy and useful, especially to beginners.
And since the Amiga is multi-tasking WAIT does
not use any CPU time. AmigaCOMAL also gives you
a protected input field, like that in
professional software. The user is restricted to
where they can type in reply to an INPUT request.
Full access to subdirectories is also included,
similar to DOS.

A COMPILER is available as part of the AmigaCOMAL
Developers Kit, a low cost option. It allows you
to turn a COMAL program into a stand-alone file
that can be run on any Amiga without the need of
COMAL. This allows you to distribute your
programs to any Amiga user, not just those who
own COMAL. Also included is a manual explaining
how to write packages for COMAL in C and
Assembler.

AmigaCOMAL has its own preferences file that lets
you set up how much memory to allocate to the
COMAL system (up to your full installed memory)
and the way the windows come up. You have a
Command Window and an Execute Window. They can be
on separate screens, on the workbench, or even
combined into one screen (like other COMALs with
one screen). An INSTALL program (complete with
pop up help screens) is included to allow you to
customize your AmigaCOMAL preferences.

You can PASS commands to AmigaDOS or open a new
CLI window from inside COMAL. Plus, all the
Intuition, Exec, DOS, etc., routines are
available to you, complete with all the
structures pre-defined. Advanced programmers also
have commands to Allocate and Deallocate data
areas. TRACE with a Single Step mode is available
to help in program debugging. And the Error
Handler also includes a RETRY command, that
allows the trapped statements to be executed over
again.

There are three types of integer types (to be
compatible with C structures). You can assign a
value to every element in an array with one
command. For example:
    READ table()
will read values from DATA statements into the
array named TABLE. Or give every element that
same value like this:
    item$():="not assigned"

You also can automatically determine the top and
bottom indices to any array with the commands
MAXINDEX and MININDEX.

AmigaCOMAL is not copy-protected. You are
encouraged to make a backup copy for yourself.
However, you are not permitted to give out copies
to others. However, you are encouraged to give
out copies of the AmigaCOMAL DEMO version disk!
You can include programs you write on that disk,
and they can be RUN from the Demo version using
the LOAD, CHAIN or RUN commands.

For a free 24 page COMAL INFO booklet send a Self
Addressed Stamped (45 cents) Envelope to:

	COMAL Users Group USA Ltd
	5501 Groveland Terrace
	Madison, WI 53716
