        OOEP was started because, as of this writing, the Amiga E
        programming language, while very powerful, lacks a very
        comfortable, easily extensible object library to take
        advantage of its Object Technology features.  So, while you
        may program objects, you aren't getting the full benefits of
        Object Technology.

        So, you have the option of creating your own extensible set
        of objects and whatnot on your own, which will take you a
        certain measure of time, or you can use ours.  Since the
        source code is included, you can fix any bugs you might
        stumble upon, or optimize anything that doesn't work quickly
        enough for you, or otherwise improve the system in some way.
        Or, if you want, you may contribute new objects to extend
        the system.  All of these should be sent to the AEE (Amiga E
        Encyclopedia) folks for approval and submission to the
        greater Amiga E audience.

        With this set of objects, Amiga E can become a more friendly
        environment to work with.



        In building reusable code, and building it to be as
        extensible as this hopes to be, one often finds him/herself
        having to make various tradeoffs.  This almost always takes
        the form of speed vs. memory, although in the case of reuse,
        sometimes it's speed/memory vs. reuse.

        A case in point might be some of the stuff that will be done
        in the 'Numbers' objects.  Both memory and speed will be
        used due to the coersion schemes to convert sets of numbers
        to other sets of numbers.

        Sometimes, you'll find the more classical Amiga E approaches
        to be stronger than anything developed here.  If you need
        speed and efficiency or better use of memory, and these
        modules don't exactly offer it for you, you may have to
        build your objects a little more by scratch (say, perhaps,
        using Amiga E's float numbers rather than our object
        'Float').

        The goals of this project is reuse and extensibility.  We
        attempt to make our objects as efficient and
        memory-conserving as possible, but our primary goal is
        reuse.

        If there are any glaring problems (say, an object simply
        doesn't work properly), we ask you either fix the problem
        yourself and send the AEE team your fix (which will make you
        part of the AEE team <grin>) or make the AEE team aware of
        the problem (many of them are also on the Amiga E mailing
        list).



        The oomodules/ hierarchy is not finished in any way, even the
        objects are still being developed. To make this library what it
        should be your work is needed.

        These are the things that have to be done next
        (discussion wanted):

        - Check documentation (major)

        - Test objects and provide test programs (major)

        - Include introductory texts to OO and the oomodules/hierarchy (major)

        - Work out an exception and return code scheme for all objects (major)

        - Make build file (major)

        - include other objects and object collections (dd_modules, oo
          framework)



        - Localize objects with library/locale/catalogList (minor)

        - Tidy up sources (minor)



        Discussion should take place in the e mailing list. Everyone is
        encouraged to contribute thoughts, opinions and ideas. Modifications
        to the hierarchy are coordinated through the e mailing list.



        The whole archive is provided as found on my hard disk. That leads to
        these consequences:

        - Some objects may not work correctly. The reason for this is very
          simple: I'm all alone. I coded the objects and tested them. That's
          not how it should be. The programmer is not a good tester for his
          own program.

        - The documentation may be somewhat weird. I don't know if the docs
          are any good or just crap. Also they differ in style since my
          doc-writing style evolved over the months.

        - Test programs are missing. Often I designed an object to be able to
          design another. The test program of the first object mutated to an
          inheriting object.

        I didn't launch the archive earlier for this very reasons.

        You may have wondered what this guy did who had the idea of the
        Amiga E Encyclopedia. Well, now you know what I fiddled around with :)


        Gregor Goldbach
