
                WELCOME TO THE JFORTH DEMO DISK!
    
    This is a demo of JForth Professional V3, one of the most 
    powerful and sophisticated flavors of the Forth programming 
    language available.
    
    EVEN IF YOU ARE NOT A PROGRAMMER, this disk will benefit you,
    because we've included 2 commercial-quality, useful applications.
    
    First, there's TEXTRA V1.11, the user-friendly text editor
    with ARexx (plus documentation and ARexx scripts).  This is
    a general purpose, standard text editor with a focus on
    ease-of-use.  Textra can function as an integrated editor with
    JForth via ARexx.
    
    Also included is the LCD Calculator, which was noted in 
    mid-1991 issues of both AmigaWorld and .INFO (the latter 
    even displayed a screenshot).  (Please note that the LCDIFF 
    drawer must reside either in the same drawer as LCD 
    Calculator, or in sys:utilities).  (NOTE: This demo contains
    the newer LCD Calculator II program, which includes printing
    and a color requester!)
    
    Feel free to distribute this disk, including TEXTRA and the 
    LCD Calculator to user groups and your friends, but PLEASE pass 
    this disk around in its entirity!
    
    (Incidentally, TEXTRA and LCD Calculator are both written in 
    JForth; they are standalone programs produced with the CLONE 
    facility, one of JForths many unique and advanced features.)
    
    For those that ARE interested in programming, this disk should 
    prove a treat!  It contains a functional but limited JForth 
    compiler and interpreter in conjunction with example programs, 
    tutorials, and a compiled "Introduction" program available in the 
    JForth program startup.
    
    The "Example_Program" executable is another CLONEd JForth 
    program.  It utilizes many Amiga facilities such as graphics 
    (including a HAM mode demo), menus, sprites etc.  The JForth 
    source code for "Example_Program" is not provided with this 
    demo, but does come with the JForth product release.  These, 
    as well as the source for other 'demos' in addition to some 
    real, useful tools (such as 'wordcount.f ', which IS 
    included in this demo package) provide the customer with a 
    multitude of example JForth-Amiga programming techniques for 
    accessing your Amiga's Intuition, graphics, menus, ARexx, 
    and animation capabilities and more.
    
    The standard JForth product includes complete Amiga 2.0 include
    support files, in JForth '.j' form, as well as the means for
    accessing all standard and custom Amiga shared-libraries.
    While the include files are not included in this Demo compiler,
    many Amiga data structures and system calls have been pre-compiled
    for you.  Their use is described in the "Tutorials/Tutorial" file.
    
    With this demo, you can compile and examine the provided 
    source code programs and get a feel for programming in 
    Forth.  You can observe the crisp, immediate aspect of the 
    JForth interpreter, allowing "direct access" to all levels 
    of the machine.  Hopefully, you will appreciate the 
    interactivily of the language, allowing you to compile 
    high-level programs from the keyboard, and examine, even 
    execute subroutines individually in the same manner.  The 
    compiled Source-Level Debugger may be be of interest.  Or 
    opening windows and making graphics calls one-at-a-time from 
    the keyboard...  INTERACTIVELY!
    
    Anything is possible with Forth... JForth!
    
    
    To get the most from this demo, may we suggest...
    
    o  Play with the "Example_Program"
    
    o  Run the "JForth_Demo" program and view the 'Intro' program.
    
    o  You may want to run your Amiga in Hires-Interlaced mode, 
       so that both your text-editor/viewer and JForth may be 
       easily visible at the same time.  OR...
       Some may prefer to print out the tutorials to follow with 
       hardcopy, perhaps taking notes (The Textra editor will 
       print text files, paying attention to the system Printer 
       Preferences AND with optional line numbers and/or a 'page 
       header' line at the top of each page).
    
    o  Pathnames in the tutorials & intros are relative to the 
       topmost directory, the one containing the "JForth_Demo" 
       program.  (If you launch it from shell, you should CD to 
       the same directory as the program.  If you double-click 
       the "JForth_Demo" program, this is automatically the 
       case).
       
    o  View the text files in the 'Tutorials' directory in this
       order...
       
       1. Overview
       2. Tutorial
       3. Grand_Tour
       4. More_Commands
    
    o  INCLUDE each of the files in the 'Programs' drawer, and play
       with them, disassemble parts of them, look at their source
       code.
    
    
    We hope you enjoy this JForth Demo.
    
    Ask for JForth Professional V3 at your local Amiga software 
    dealer.
    
               Delta Research
              P.O. Box  151051
         San Rafael, CA. 94915-1051
    
              (415) 453-4320
