	I got this back in 1987, and have been using it since then.  It
is freely redistributable (see the original writer's copyright message).
My modifications and the 2 routines I added are public domain.  It also
uses Chuck McManis's cooked IO routines.

	To compile under amigados, you must use -Dfseek=unixfseek.  This
is because the program assumes fseek will extend the file, which is not
normally true under amigados.

	It needs an amigados makefile (badly).  Don't forget to include
amiga.c, amiga_getenv.c, and raw.o.

	It could use some of the 2.0 routines (like the pattern-matching
in place of unix RE's, and GetVar() in amiga_getenv.c).  Under 2.0 you
can use one executable and hardlink the others (it keys off the name it
was run under).

	It's pretty stable.  Unix-pathing has been replaced with amiga-
pathing (., .., etc).  The amiga-specific changes to the main code are
ifdef AMIGA.

	Randell Jesup



	Just about four years later I found this tool on the
Frozen Fish CD-ROM. Neat! But some feature were missing, such as the
regexp support in the lookup utilities and wildcard file name expansion
in mkid. I also found one or the other bug that needed fixing. For
example, if a lookup tool didn't find the ID database in its current
drawer or some parent drawer, it would cause Enforcer hits and change
the calling Shell's current directory without ever restoring it.
Rebuilding the tools using SAS/C was a good idea, the tools are all
pure now and can be made resident. I also threw in some 2.0 additions,
notably the editor launch procedure and the wildcard expansion stuff.
The scanner now handles .i and .asm files and the lookup tools will
output proper AmigaDOS wildcard patterns rather than plain regexp
patterns.
	The distribution preserves Fred's original drawer
structure and adds an SAS/C SMakefile. I removed some of the original
source files which were now obsolete. The binaries in the "bin"
drawer were built for an Amiga running Kickstart 2.04 or higher,
using the ieee math libraries. I haven't tested if they still work on
Kickstart 1.3 and friends, they probably won't.

	Olaf Barthel <olsen@sourcery.han.de>, 29 June 1995


	More, small additions: the C scanner now handles C++ style
comments ("//") and recognizes files with .cpp/.cxx/.c++/.hpp/.hxx/.h++
extensions. There is no specific C++ support in the scanner, but it never
checked for C specific data structures anyway ;) The assembly language
scanner now handles comment lines introduced by "*" or ";". Some file
name and name suffix comparisons were case sensitive, which does not
make that much sense on the Amiga; the comparisons now ignore the file
name case. Speaking of case, the lookup tools sport an "-i" option to
enable case-insensitive pattern comparisons. I changed the makefile
slightly to take advantage of the fact that all tools share the same
basic set of support files which are now bound together in a linker
library. This reduced the tool size once again. The tools now use
utility.library for inline math routines. This means that they will
definitely no longer run under Kickstart 1.3 and below. For the record,
all changes I made and routines I added are public domain.

	Olaf Barthel <olsen@sourcery.han.de>, 23 July 1995


	In an attempt to make the raw/cooked I/O routines more
robust I rewrote raw.c. mkid now uses ffp math routines as it
was using floating point arithmetics only to calculate the final
stats it displays after building the database. This made the program
a little smaller without loss of robustness.

	Olaf Barthel <olsen@sourcery.han.de>, 17 September 1995


	The RCS support was disabled, there probably was no working
Amiga port of it available when Randell killed the code. I rewrote
the relevant routines which appear to be working fine now. The scanners
did not always like end of file conditions, some loops could run
forever. I inserted code to check for EOF where it was obviously missing.

	Olaf Barthel <olsen@sourcery.han.de>, 3 December 1995


	I polished the RCS support a bit and switched all references
to Execute() over to SystemTagList(). After converting the program
to ANSI `C' syntax I found out about some dead code and unused variables
which were easily removed. The programs now compile without warnings. None
of the code that allocated memory ever checked for allocation failures, so
I wrote replacement memory allocation routines that would exit() rather
than cause the programs to die screaming. The `C' language scanner now
knows about all 13 preprocessor directives.

	Olaf Barthel <olsen@sourcery.han.de>, 24 August 1996
