`Info_Mixer' is Copyright (C) 1998 by Friedhelm Bunk. All rights reserved.
The example ( PrlPlay and PrlRec ) from the Developer archive are
transform from C into AmigaE.
The use of this programs are at your own risk.
The author assumes no responsibility or liability for
any damage or losses resulting from the use of this software.
The source is free if you give me a information of using it or part of it.

The Modules are FREEWARE .
The include Modules are for prelude.library ( V 2.64 ) .
You use this modules at your own risk.


Short deskription of Prelude info_mixer.

Prelude info_mixer is a tool to control the settings of the prelude soundcard.
You can set the loudness of the Line, AUX1 , AUX2 , Mono and Loopback input.
You can set the right and left  loudness separate.
If you will set both (right and left) to the same level, you set the right value
and then you click to the button ( Line, AUX1, AUX2 ) .The program sets then 
the left value to the same as the right is.
For the DAC ( output ) and GAIN there is the same function.
The integer-button IRQ sets the amount of data transferred in one IRQ. 
This value can be set in PreludeInit() only ,so it has only effect if you reset the
card.It must be at least 16 and may have a maximum of 512.
IF the integer-button HPF is set to TRUE (~0), the ADC High Pass Filter is enabled,
the ADC offset is set to 0 .  
The checkbox gadgets Rmic and Lmic set the MicGain +20db ON or OF.
The toggle button Input set the channel with is routed to the ADC .
The toggle button frequency set the frequency of the Sample.
The program saves automatic at program end the actual settings to ENV.
The menu "Save" ENVARC saves the actual settings to ENVARC:
The menu "Load" loads the ENV settings and set it as actual values.
The menue "Set default" loads the ENVARC: settings and set it as actual values.
The menu "Update data" set the actual values to the GUI 
( Update if other programs have changed the values)
"Reset Card", resets the Prelude soundcard.
( Only at this function the IRQ value is set !)
Card Info gives the user a info witch process is running ( Play, Rec use of the card ).

The program works on Amiga graphics and Cybergraphics V2 without problems.
On Cybergraphics V3 it crash at 8bit screens , at 16 and 24bit screens it works.
If you find the bug, please let me know.

Sorry for my English, but it is not my mother tongue.

Horsten , Germany 31 JUL 98
balu-bu@t-online.de