
Changes in beta v1.17

 Know bugs
 - When selecting a link and in thoose cases where the
   selected link does have a link at the same location
   as where it was selected from, ADV will swap between
   these function about 3-5 times. I have tried to fix this,
   but I haven't found anything wrong, yet!!! Any creative
   suggestions would be creatly appriciated!!! If you
   want to see this bug, try utility.doc/CheckDate() and
   select the SEE ALSO link to Date2Amiga() using topaz/8
   font as textfont...

 New features
 - The group window now support "closer" and "closer"
   keystrok search. The nearest match will be a ghosted
   entry in the list, when the user hits return the ghosted
   item will be selected. The user are also able to delete
   last keystroke by pressing "Backspace". The keystroke
   buffer will self delete after a certain amount of time,
   this time period can be changed in the settings window.
   Note!! The time period are messaured in micro seonds.

 Changes
 - The include window has now a changeable window title,
   it will no longer just say "Includes...", it will show
   the name on the actual include that are displayed 
   (without the path).
 - Minimum font size has been changed from 8 to 6.
 - Some cosmetic changes are also done, the user will
   not notice any of them.

 Bugs fixed
 - A minor error while scanning asm includes (.i) files
   has been corrected...
 - While saving configuration ADV testes if the internal
   save buffer is full, this testing had an stupied error
   causing AutodocViewer to always believe the save buffer
   was full (ready for writting), making the save routine
   extremely slow... No wonder I couldn't optimize it more
   than 20%... Now it's extremely fast... The optimization
   done in the beta v1.16 are probably as succsess full as
   the optimization of loading configuration...

Changes in beta v1.16

 New features
  - Menuitem "Windows -> Edit Includes" has been implemented
    this makes it possible to add/remove single include files
  - Load configuration is optimized with approx. 70%
  - Save configuration is optimized with approx. 20%

 Bugs fixed
 - When a public screen named "AutodocViewer" already exists,
   AutodocViewer Lite just exited. Now a new public screen
   called "AutodocViewer.x" are opened instead. Where "x"
   are in the range from 1 to 9.
 - Resizing Viewer window just after text font change caused a
   system failure, this has been corrected.


Changes in beta v1.15

 New features
 - Now the user are able to scan all functions in the selected
   autodoc for matching symbols found in other autodocs and
   include files

 Bugs fixed
 - Stupid me!!! I forgot to check to create groups in the
   v1.14 release, so beta v1.14 was unusable. Stupid, stupid,
   stupid x 999999999
 - Minor optimizations


Changes in beta v1.14

 New features
 - AutodocViewer can open on any public or custom screen

 Bugs fixed
 - If an autodoc are added from a root directory, AutodocViewer
   was not able to locate it. Reason, it cleared the ":" in
   the device name???
 - While sorting the groups alphabetical, the AutodocViewer
   writes into forbidden memory causing the Amiga to crash.
   Corrected, now it writes into correct memory area.
 - Rename Group Requester did show the C format string instead
   of the result of _LVORawDoFmt().

