GETTING STARTED


This section takes you through the steps necessary to build the console.lib
library of compiled SmartFields functions.  Even if you are an experienced C
programmer, we suggest that you read through these steps.


1.  Take a minute to fill out the registration card and mail it
    back to us right away.

        "Well, obviously this no longer applies since this is no longer a
        commercial product."  --Timm.


2.  Make a backup copy of your SmartFields diskette.

        The SmartFields diskette is not copy-protected in any way.  Make sure
        your original SmartFields diskette is write-protected, duplicate it,
        then put it away for safekeeping.  Our policy is to provide
        extensive, detailed documentation in the hope that it will convince
        people to purchase the package in order to also get the manual.  We
        feel that punishing our respected customers with copy-protection
        because of a few bad pirates is not a fair practice.  Please
        discourage software piracy.  It hurts software developers in the form
        of lower revenues and it hurts good customers like you in the form of
        higher prices.  Spread the word, not the disk.


3.  Modify the console include files.

        The include files to be copied to your work disk are
        located in the include directory on your SmartFields
        diskette.  This directory contains two subdirectories named
        console and toolkit.

        a.  Load the console.h include file from the console subdirectory
            into your program editor.

            1.  Near the end of a file, you will find the TAB_JUMP
                definition set to 4.  This is the number of character
                positions that the cursor will jump when the user presses the
                TAB button.  If you wish, change this value.

            2.  Just below that, you will find the DEFAULT_TYPE_MODE
                definition set to TYPEOVER_TYPE_MODE.  Change this value if
                you wish insert mode to be the default type mode.

            3.  When you are finished, save this file back to the diskette.

        b.  Load the fields.h include file from the console subdirectory into
            your program editor.  At the end of the file you will notice a
            block of definition which redefines the strcpy() and strlen()
            functions with the _BUILTIN_ prefix.  If your compiler does not
            support this feature, remove this block.  When you are finished,
            save this file back to the diskette.

4.  Create the console include files.

        a.  Locate your include directory on your work disk.  This is the
            directory which contains all of the include files needed to
            compile your Amiga C programs, including the Amiga include file
            sub-directories such as exec, graphics, intuition, and workbench.
            Here, create a sub-directory named console and a sub-directory
            named toolkit.

        b.  Copy the three files contained in the console subdirectory of the
            include directory on your SmartFields diskette into your newly
            created console directory.

        c.  Copy the toolkit.h include file contained in the toolkit
            subdirectory of the include directory on your SmartFields
            diskette into your newly created toolkit directory.  NOTE:  If
            you already have a toolkit/toolkit.h include file from the C
            Toolkit (also by Software Ingenuity), do NOT replace this with
            toolkit.h file supplied with SmartFields!  It will already
            contain all of the necessary definitions.

5.  Check the intuition/intuition.h include file.

        For SmartFields to work properly, you must have a recent version of the
        intuition/intuition.h include file.  Load the file into your text editor
        and examine the Window structure.  The last three parameters of the
        structure should read:

            struct Window {
                ...
                BYTE *UserData;
                struct Layer *WLayer;
                struct TextFont *IFont;
            };

        If your version of the file does not have that last parameter
        (IFont), add it, then save the file.

6.  Compile the SmartFields functions.

        The console.compile batch file located in the functions directory on
        your SmartFields diskette was provided for you to mass-compile all of
        the functions at once.  Load this file into your program editor and
        mass replace the cc command with the name of your compiler and any
        required flags.  Then execute this batch file.  This will create the
        .o files for all of the SmartFields functions.

7.  Create the console.lib library.

        The create.lib batch file also located in the functions directory on
        your SmartFields diskette was provided for you to create the
        console.lib library.  Load this file into your program editor and
        change any necessary commands to conform to your librarian.  Note
        that the console.lib.build file provided in the same directory
        contains a list of all of the .o SmartFields functions required for
        console.lib.

8.  Copy the console.lib to your library directory.

        Locate the directory on your work disk containing all of the
        libraries with which you link your C programs including the standard
        C library.  Copy your newly created console.lib to this directory.

9.  Congratulations!

        You are now ready to write your own SmartFields programs!


Getting Started  01/13/90
© Copyright 1990 Timm Martin
All Rights Reserved Worldwide

/*-- END --*/
