INTRODUCTION TO SMART FIELDS


Welcome to SmartFields!  The SmartFields system by Software Ingenuity is a
collection of functions which you link with your application programs to
provide a friendly, powerful data input interface to users.  SmartFields are
similar to Intuition string gadgets in many ways, but we feel that several
features make them more powerful than their Intuition counterparts.


SmartFields features:
---------------------

Images and borders simultaneously

    Intuition gadgets make you choose between the two.

Ability to select input text style, foreground color, and background color

    With Intuition string gadgets, you are limited to the window's default
    colors and plain text.  With SmartFields, you can specify for each
    individual field the foreground color, background color, and the text
    style including italic, bold, underline, inverse, or any combination.
    Best of all, you can change these field attributes "on the fly."  For
    example, if a user inputs incorrect data in one of the fields, change the
    data in that field to red!

Delete forward

    Also known as "Field Exit" on some of the popular minicomputers, this is
    a real time saver.

Delete backward

    A feature not seen on many computers, this becomes very handy allowing
    you to delete the contents of a field to the left of the cursor.

Typeover and insert mode

    You set the default for each window and allow the user to change back and
    forth at will.

Tab forward and tab backward

    A handy little device to move quickly through a field using the keyboard.

Field duplication

    One of the most sought after features in database programs, this function
    allows the user to duplicate the contents of a field from the previous
    record.

Cut, copy, and paste between fields

    SmartFields defines, allocates, and maintains its own private clipboard
    which allows the user to copy or cut the contents of any field and paste
    it back into another field of the same or different length.  This and all
    of the above functions are completely transparent to your calling program.

Ability to mask out any character or set of characters

    You define which of all of the 256 ASCII characters you want to allow
    input into each field.  Thus you can mask out numeric characters,
    alphabetic characters, alternate characters, or even all but a 'y' and
    'n' for a simple yes-or-no field.  These masks are created to allow you
    maximum flexibility and maximum program speed.  You are not required to
    make masks for fields which allow all characters.  Three functions are
    provided to help you create a field mask from within your program.

All menu command keys

    How many times have you wanted to use right-Amiga-Q as a command key
    shortcut for a "Quit" menu selection?  With SmartFields, all right-Amiga
    keys are free for your use.

Access to the Help and Escape keys

    Perhaps one of the biggest downfalls of Intuition string gadgets is that
    they do not notify the calling program when the Help key is pressed.
    With this feature you can make the ultimate user-friendly program: a
    program that has a help-screen for each input field.

Programmer-defined function and control keys

    You can define any of the function and shifted function keys, and any of
    the unused control key combinations.  As a matter of fact, you can
    redefine any console key to your specifications.

Ability to jump from one field to another using the cursor keys

    Simulate a minicomputer environment by allowing the user to jump to the
    previous field using the up-arrow key or to the next field using the
    down-arrow or return key.  You also have access to the shifted-up and
    down-arrow keys for jumping to the first and last fields in a window.
    Your program defines to which field the cursor should move after an arrow
    key has been pressed, allowing you maximum flexibility.

Pointer to the previous field in addition to the next field

    This may seem like a minor point, but if in your program cursor movement
    proceeds sequentially through the field list, you can save a lot of
    programming time and space by just sending the cursor to the field
    pointed to by the "PrevField" pointer.

The source code

    Perhaps the very best difference of all!  If you don't like something,
    change it!  Although the functions supplied are fully operational and
    configured to what we feel is the best environment for user input, you
    may not agree, and are completely at liberty to modify anything you see
    fit.


USE OF THE SMART FIELDS SYSTEM
------------------------------

You may incorporate SmartFields into a program in one of four
ways:

1)  Copy the source code of the desired functions directly into your program.
    This method is not recommended because it defeats the purpose of separate
    SmartFields functions.

2)  Compile the desired functions and link them with your program.  This also
    is not a complete use of the power afforded by the SmartFields system.

3)  Compile all SmartFields functions and place them in a library to be linked
    with you programs.  This is the method we suggest.

4)  Create a SmartFields library to be opened by your program at run time,
    similar to how a program opens the Intuition library.  This method may
    save a little on program size, but you add the requirement of having to
    have the library present on every system where you run your program.
    This is just an added burden to the user, and therefore is not
    recommended.

The rest of the manual will assume that you have selected option #3.


THE MANUAL
----------

Introduction
    License Agreement
        Contains that bit of legalese that you hate to read but you really
        should before opening the diskette packet.
    Introduction to SmartFields
        What you are reading now.
    Package Contents
        Lists what you should have found when you opened the SmartFields
        package.

Program Information
    Creating a SmartFields Program
        Takes you step-by-step through the source code of a sample program,
        detailing all the steps needed to create your own SmartFields program.
    Function Descriptions
        Contains a detailed description of every SmartFields function.
    Structure Definitions
        Contains a detailed description of the structures used in the
        SmartFields system.
    Include Header Files
        Explains the meaning and use of the definitions contained in the
        SmartFields include header files.
    Field Layout
        Illustrates the physical layout on the screen of a field in the
        SmartFields system.
    Keyboard Chart
        Lists all keys accessible through the SmartFields system.

User Information
    User Manual
        Contains a manual for end-users of the SmartFields system.

Appendixes
    List of Libraries
        Lists the libraries that are referenced in this manual and accessed
        by the SmartFields functions.
    List of Functions
        Contains all of the SmartFields functions in alphabetical order.
    Parent-Child List
    Child-Parent List
        Contain the parent and child functions, in other words, functions
        which call other functions.  This is provided for programmers who
        wish to modify the SmartFields library and need to know the hierarchy
        of the functions in the SmartFields system.
    Brief Function Descriptions
        Contains brief descriptions of all of the SmartFields functions.
    Function Synopses
        Lists all of the SmartFields functions in alphabetical order, the
        arguments they require, the values they return, and the page number
        on which their full descriptions reside.

Index
    Contains a detailed index which hopefully will help you find everything
    you need to know.


Introduction  01/13/90
© Copyright 1990 Timm Martin
All Rights Reserved Worldwide

/*-- END --*/
