1)  COMPLETE REGISTRATION CARD

    Does not apply.


2)  MAKE BACKUP COPY

    Before going any further, make a backup copy of your SmartFields
    diskette.  Consult your Amiga manual if you are unfamiliar with the
    procedure for copying diskettes.  Place your original SmartFields
    diskette in a safe place and use your backup copy for all procedures
    listed below.


3)  INSTALL CONSOLE INCLUDE FILES

    You need to install your SmartFields include files.  Include files are
    the files that you read during compilation, for example

        #include <intuition/intuition.h>

    First, determine where your Amiga include files are located.  This is
    where you will install your SmartFields include files.  One way to
    determine where the Amiga include files are located is to execute the set
    command.  To do this from the CLI, simply type

        set

    and press RETURN.  The set command will display a few lines of text in
    the CLI window.  These lines contain the "environment variables" that
    your Manx C system uses.  Look for the line that begins with

        INCLUDE=

    This is the INCLUDE environment variable, telling the compiler in what
    directory your include files are stored.  Multiple directories are
    separated with an exclamation mark (!).  As an example, imagine that the
    set command produces the following output:

        INCLUDE=SYS1:include!SYS2:asm
        CLIB=ram:!SYS1:lib!SYS2:lib
        CCTEMP=ram:

    (By the way, this happens to be the default setup for v3.6 of the Manx C
    compiler).  Right now we are only interested in the first line.  This
    tells the compiler to search the include directory on the SYS1: diskette
    for all include files.  If not found there, it will next search the asm
    directory on the SYS2: diskette.

    Using the CLI dir command, search the directories listed on the INCLUDE=
    line for the directory which contains numerous subdirectories, including:

        devices (dir)
        exec (dir)
        graphics (dir)
        hardware (dir)
        intuition (dir)
        workbench (dir)
        ...

    The Amiga include files are stored in subdirectories as listed above.
    This is where you will install your SmartFields include files.

    SPECIAL NOTE: If you store your include files in ram: or on a sticky-RAM
    disk, you will need to find the include directory on your startup
    diskette and install the include files there as well.  Otherwise, any
    files you install only on your RAM disk will be lost when you shut off
    your Amiga.

    Change directories so you are now in the include directory containing all
    of the subdirectories as listed above.  For example, if you found the
    subdirectories in the SYS1:include directory, you would type in the CLI:

        cd SYS1:include

    Now make a new directory called console:

        makedir console

    Copy the three SmartFields include files provided on your SmartFields
    diskette to the console directory you've just created:

        copy SmartFields:include/console/#? console/

    Now display the contents of the console directory:

        dir console

    If all went well, it should contain the following include files:

        console.h
        fields.h
        functions.h


4)  INSTALL TOOLKIT INCLUDE FILES

    WARNING!! If you are already using another Software Ingenuity product--
    the C Toolkit--you will have already installed a toolkit.h include file.
    If this is the case, do NOT execute this step (step 4)!

    Make a new directory called toolkit:

        makedir toolkit

    Copy the toolkit.h include file provided on your SmartFields diskette to
    the toolkit directory you've just created:

        copy SmartFields:include/toolkit/toolkit.h toolkit/

    Now display the contents of the toolkit directory:

        dir toolkit

    If all went well, it should contain the following file:

        toolkit.h


5)  COMPILE SMARTFIELDS FUNCTIONS

    A batch file has been provided that will compile all 70 SmartFields
    functions for you.  The file is named compile.manx and is located in the
    Manx directory on your SmartFields diskette.  Load the compile.manx file
    into your favorite text editor.  You will notice that there are three
    command lines for each SmartFields function.  The first line outputs a
    blank line to the CLI window, and the second line outputs the name of the
    SmartFields function that is about to be compiled.

    The third line compiles the SmartFields function.  Every function is
    compiled using the cc command WITHOUT any compiler flags.  This will
    produce a small-data, small-code object module that uses 16-bit ints.

    If you wish to compile the functions under different conditions, you need
    to add your own compiler flags.  As an example, let's say you want to
    compile all of the functions using 32-bit ints.  Place the cursor at the
    top of the compile.manx file and execute your text editor's search/
    replace function.  When it asks you which text you want to search for,
    type

        cc

    When it asks you which text you want to replace it with, type

        cc +l

    In essence, this will add the +l flag (for 32-bit ints) to all compiler
    calls.

    If you made any changes, save the compile.manx file back to disk.  To
    begin compilation, type at the CLI:

        execute SmartFields:manx/compile.manx

    This will compile all SmartFields functions, creating a ".o" object file
    for each ".c" source file.  The batch file will stop executing if any of
    the functions have a compiler error.  On the other hand, compiler
    warnings will be displayed, but the batch file will NOT stop executing.

    All 70 SmartFields functions will compile successfully using both Manx
    compiler versions 3.4a and 3.6a with the supplied compile.manx batch file.


6)  CREATE SMARTFIELDS LIBRARY

    Now that you've compiled all of the SmartFields functions, you need to
    build them into a library to be linked with your C programs.  To do this,
    type at the CLI:

        execute SmartFields:manx/library.manx

    This will create a library called sf.lib in the Manx directory of your
    SmartFields diskette.

    You now need to copy this library into the directory which contains the
    other link-time libraries such as c.lib and m.lib.  Using the set command
    as demonstrated earlier, look for the line that begins with

        CLIB=

    This is the CLIB environment variable, telling the linker in what
    directory your libraries are stored.  Multiple directories are separated
    with an exclamation mark (!).  Again, imagine that the set command
    produces the following output:

        INCLUDE=SYS1:include!SYS2:asm
        CLIB=ram:!SYS1:lib!SYS2:lib
        CCTEMP=ram:

    This time we are interested in the second line.  This tells the linker to
    first search ram:, then the lib directory on the SYS1:  diskette, and
    finally the lib directory on the SYS2: diskette for all libraries.  You
    should copy the sf.lib library to any one of these directories.  Again,
    if you store your libraries in ram: or on a sticky-RAM disk, you will
    need to find the library directory on your startup diskette and copy the
    sf.lib library there as well.  If you copy sf.lib only to your RAM disk,
    it will be lost when you shut off your Amiga.

    NOTE: You can create multiple versions of the same library in the same
    manner as Manx does with its c.lib library.  For example, you can create
    a standard sf.lib AND a sf32.lib in which all functions are compiled with
    the +l flag to produce 32-bit ints.


7)  CONGRATULATIONS!

    You are now ready to incorporate the SmartFields system in your own
    programs!  An example program is supplied just to get you familiar with
    how you would go about using the SmartFields library.  Using the sf.lib
    library is as easy as using the standard c.lib library, but if you would
    like a little practice, read on...


8)  REGULAR TEST PROGRAM

    Change the current directory to the example program directory:

        cd SmartFields:programs/example

    The program labeled e.c is the example program discussed in the "Creating
    a SmartFields Program" section of the manual.  To compile the program,
    type at the CLI:

        cc e.c

    NOTE: If you added any flags to the compiler commands in the compile.manx
    batch file (such as +l), you will need to add them here as well!

    To link the program, type at the CLI:

        ln e.o -lsf -lc

    NOTE: If you added any flags to the compiler commands, you will most
    likely have to link with a different c library.  For example, if you
    added +l to get 32-bit ints, you will need to link with the c32.lib
    library.  We suggest that you use the same convention when naming the
    SmartFields library, such that your link statement might appear as:

        ln e.o -lsf32 -lc32

    To run the example program, type at the CLI:

        e

    See page 10 of the manual for more information on how to run the example
    program.  To end the program, click on the window's close gadget.


Manx Instructions  01/13/90
© Copyright 1990 Timm Martin
All Rights Reserved Worldwide

/*-- END --*/
