PACKAGE CONTENTS


The SmartFields LHArc file is divided into four main directories:

    docs
        Contains all SmartFields documentation.
    include
        Contains two include header file subdirectories.
    programs
        Contains sample program subdirectories, each containing the source
        code, the executable program, and an executable batch file for the
        linking process (originally set up to run with the Manx C linker).
    functions
        Contains the source to all of the SmartFields functions and the
        executable batch files to help you create your console.lib library.

The include directory is divided further into these subdirectories:

    console
        Contains the console.h, fields.h, and functions.h include header
        files to be copied onto your compiler work disk.
    toolkit
        Contains the toolkit.h include header file to be copied onto your
        compiler work disk.

The programs directory is divided further into subdirectories:

    coninput
        Contains a console input test program.
    example
        Contains a file maintenance example program.
    graphic
        Contains a graphic rendering test program.
    requester
        Contains a requester example program.


coninput
    This directory contains the console input test function.  Run the program
    from the CLI.  The program will open a window and monitor every key you
    press, displaying the code returned by the console_input() function.  For
    displayable characters, the codes returned are displayed in decimal,
    hexadecimal, and character form.  All other codes are displayed as the
    console/console.h flag.  Also see the "Keyboard Chart" section for more
    details.

    Contents:
        c.c - source code
        c   - executable program
        cl  - executable batch file for linking process


example
    This directory contains an example program that demonstrates the
    SmartFields capabilities.  The program is a simple file maintenance
    program, maintaining a singly-linked linear list of vendors in RAM.  Use
    the menu "Enter" command to add or change a vendor.  To change an already
    added vendor, just type the vendor's name and press RETURN.  The source
    code to this program is explained in some detail in the "Creating a
    SmartFields Program" section of this manual.

    Contents:
        e.c    - source code
        e      - executable program
        el     - executable batch file for linking process
        itoa.c - supplied just in case

graphic
    This directory contains a program that demonstrates the dazzling effect
    that color adds to SmartFields programs.  The first three fields dictate
    the color and style of the text in the bottom field.  These fields
    correspond to the FrontPen, BackPen, and Style parameters in the Field
    structure.  Press RETURN after you enter each value so that the program
    recognizes your entry.  The English equivalents to the values you enter
    will be displayed just to the right of each field.  When you type in the
    bottom field, the text will appear with current graphic settings.  Note
    that text entered earlier will not automatically be changed to the
    current settings unless you refresh the display by sizing the window.

    This sample program also demonstrates some of the problems that occur
    when you specify a BackPen that is not the same as the window's
    background color.  Change the background color to 2 or 3, then resize the
    window and see what happens.  The randomly placed colored squares are the
    result of the Intuition refreshing method.  You can avoid this somewhat
    by using the SIMPLE_REFRESH method, but this is often inconvenient.

    Contents:
        g.c    - source code
        g      - executable program
        gl     - executable batch file for linking process
        itoa.c - supplied just in case


requester
    This directory contains a program that demonstrates how to use
    SmartFields with requesters, giving the user keyboard equivalents to each
    of the requester's gadgets.

    Contents:
        r.c - source code
        r   - executable program
        rl  - executable batch file for linking process


functions
    This directory contains the source code to every SmartFields function.
    In addition, this directory contains the following files:

        cb
            This is an executable batch file to create the console.lib
            library from the collection of compiled SmartFields functions
            (see the "List of Functions" section in this manual).  It is
            originally setup to work with the Manx C librarian.

        console.compile
            This is an executable batch file to mass compile at once all of
            the SmartFields functions.  The compile program used is "cc" with
            no flags.  Mass replace this if your compiler has a different
            name or if you use compilation flags.

        console.lib.build
            This is the file used by the librarian to create the console.lib
            library.  This contains the names of all of the compiled
            SmartFields functions in an order such that there are no
            unresolved references.


Package Contents  01/13/90
© Copyright 1990 Timm Martin
All Rights Reserved Worldwide

/*-- END --*/
