USER MANUAL


KEYBOARD QUICK REFERENCE CARD

Cursor Movement
    LEFT-ARROW         Move cursor one character position to the left.
    RIGHT-ARROW        Move cursor one character position to the right.
    SHIFT-LEFT-ARROW   Move cursor to the beginning of the field.
    SHIFT-RIGHT-ARROW  Move cursor to the end of the data in field.
    TAB                Move cursor four* character positions to the right.
    SHIFT-TAB          Move cursor four* character positions to the left.

Field Movement*
    ENTER/RETURN      Accept data in the field.
    UP-ARROW          Move cursor to the previous field.
    DOWN-ARROW        Move cursor to the next field.
    SHIFT-UP-ARROW    Move cursor to the first field.
    SHIFT-DOWN-ARROW  Move cursor to the final field.

Field Edit
    DELETE     Delete character under the cursor.
    BACKSPACE  Delete character to the left of the cursor.
    CTRL-X     Delete entire contents of the field.
    CTRL-R     Restore deleted contents of the field.
    CTRL-D     Duplicate field contents from last record.
    CTRL-F     Delete forward (chars under and to the right of the cursor).
    CTRL-B     Delete backward (characters to the left of the cursor).

Clipboard Commands
    CTRL-O  Copy contents of field to the clip.
    CTRL-K  Cut contents of field to the clip.
    CTRL-P  Paste contents of clip in the field.

Miscellaneous Commands
    CTRL-T  Place in typeover mode (default).
    CTRL-N  Place in insert mode.
    HELP*   Display help.
    ESC*    Escape from field.

*These commands are dependent on your calling program.


DETAILED EXPLANATION

Fields (a bit of regression...)

    A field is defined to be a container on the screen in which you enter
    data.  The cursor (a small orange rectangle) appears in the field to show
    you where any data you type will be entered.  When you press a key on the
    keyboard, the letter you press will appear in the field under the cursor,
    and the cursor will move one character position to the right.  Keep in
    mind that each field has a maximum fixed number of characters that can be
    entered in the field.

Typeover Mode (CTRL-T)

    Typeover mode is the default mode for most programs.  You can change the
    mode to typeover mode by pressing CTRL-T.  When you press a key on the
    keyboard while in typeover mode, the letter you press will appear in the
    field under the cursor, typing over any letter that may already be under
    the cursor (hence the name "typeover").  When you reach the end of the
    field, the cursor will remain fixed over the last character in the field,
    and any character you type will be written over this last character.

Insert Mode (CTRL-N)

    To change to insert mode, press CTRL-N.  When you press a key on the
    keyboard while in insert mode, the letter you press will appear in the
    field under the cursor, and all characters under and to the right of the
    cursor will be moved over one character position to the right, in
    essence, inserting the character you typed (hence the name "insert"
    mode).  When you reach the end of the field, the cursor will remain fixed
    over the last character in the field, and the screen will flash if you
    attempt to type any more characters, for there is no room left in the
    field to insert another character.

Cursor Left (LEFT-ARROW)

    Pressing the LEFT-ARROW key moves the cursor one character position to
    the left.  If the cursor is already in the first character position in
    the field, the screen will flash, indicating that the cursor cannot move
    to the left any further.

End of Field

    As mentioned earlier, each field has a fixed maximum number of characters
    that can be entered into it.  Yet, the end of the field is considered to
    be the position immediately to the right of the last character entered.
    However, if the field is completely full, then the end of the field is
    considered to be the last character position itself.  For example, if a
    field allows a maximum of 30 characters but currently has only 6
    characters entered, then the end of the field is considered to be the 7th
    character position.  But if there are 30 characters entered in that
    field, then the end of the field is considered to be the 30th character
    position.  This rule may appear to be violated if there are trailing
    blank spaces typed after the last character in the field.  Just remember
    that blank spaces are also considered as typed characters.

Cursor Right (RIGHT-ARROW)

    Pressing the RIGHT-ARROW key moves the cursor one character position to
    the right.  If the cursor is already at the end of the field, the screen
    will flash, indicating that the cursor cannot move to the right any
    further.

Beginning of Field (SHIFT-LEFT-ARROW)

    Pressing and holding the SHIFT key while pressing the LEFT-ARROW key will
    move the cursor to the first character position in the field.  If the
    cursor is already at the beginning of the field, the screen will flash,
    indicating that the cursor cannot move to the left any further.

End of Field (SHIFT-RIGHT-ARROW)

    Pressing and holding the SHIFT key while pressing the RIGHT-ARROW key
    will move the cursor to the end of the field.  If the cursor is already
    at the end of the field, the screen will flash, indicating that the
    cursor cannot move to the right any further.

Cursor Jump Right (TAB)

    Pressing the TAB key will move the cursor four character positions to the
    right.  If the cursor is already at the end of the field, the screen will
    flash, indicating that the cursor cannot move to the right any further.
    If the cursor is not at the end of the field but less than four character
    positions to the left of the end of the field, the cursor will move to
    the end of the field.

Cursor Jump Left (SHIFT-TAB)

    Pressing and holding the SHIFT key while pressing the TAB key will move
    the cursor four character positions to the left.  If the cursor is
    already at the first character position in the field, the screen will
    flash, indicating that the cursor cannot move to the left any further.
    If the cursor is not at the beginning of the field, but less than four
    character positions to the right of the beginning of the field, the
    cursor will move to the beginning of the field.

Delete Character (DELETE)

    Pressing the DELETE key will delete the character under the cursor, and
    move all characters to the right of the cursor one character position to
    the left.  If the cursor is at the end of the field and the field is not
    full (in other words, the cursor is one character position to the right
    of the last character entered in the field), the screen will flash,
    indicating that the cursor is not over a character.

Backspace over a Character (BACKSPACE)

    Pressing the BACKSPACE key will delete the character to the left of the
    cursor and move all characters under and to the right of the cursor one
    character position to the left.  If the cursor is at the beginning of the
    field, the screen will flash, indicating that there are no characters to
    the left of the cursor that can be deleted.

Delete Field Contents (CTRL-X)

    Pressing and holding the CTRL key while pressing the 'X' key will delete
    the entire contents of the field and place the cursor in the first
    character position.  If the field is empty, the screen will flash,
    indicating that there are no characters to be deleted.

Restore Field Contents (CTRL-R)

    Pressing and holding the CTRL key while pressing the 'R' key will restore
    the contents of the field when the cursor first appeared in the field, or
    the contents of the field that were deleted with CTRL-X command.  The
    cursor will then move to the first character position of that field.  If
    the field's contents have not been deleted with the CTRL-X command for
    this record, or if this command is not supported in the current field
    (some programs may elect not to support this feature), the screen will
    flash.

Duplicate Field Contents (CTRL-D)

    Pressing and holding the CTRL key while pressing the 'D' key will
    duplicate the contents of the current field from the last record.  The
    cursor will then move to the first character position of that field.  If
    there was no previous record (i.e. this is the first record entered), if
    the contents of this field for the previous record were blank, or if this
    command is not supported in the current field, the screen will flash.

Delete Forward (CTRL-F)

    Pressing and holding the CTRL key while pressing the 'F' key will delete
    all characters under and to the right of the cursor.  The cursor is then
    considered to be at the end of the field.  If the cursor is already at
    the end of the field or if the field is empty, the screen will flash,
    indicating that there are no characters to delete.

Delete Backward (CTRL-B)

    Pressing and holding the CTRL key while pressing the 'B' key will delete
    all characters to the left of the cursor.  The characters under and to
    the right of the cursor will be shifted to the left so that the character
    under the cursor and the cursor itself are placed in the first character
    position in the field.

Stored Character Position

    The character position in which the cursor last appeared is stored for
    each field.  When you first begin a program, each time the cursor jumps
    to a new field, it moves to the first character position of that field.
    As you hop from field to field, the program remembers where the cursor
    was in that field.  For example, if you are in the City field and you
    type "St.  Petersburf" and press <RETURN>, the program will remember that
    the cursor was just past the (incorrect) 'f' in the City field.  If you
    notice this error and return to the City field, the cursor will
    automatically place itself where it was when you were last in this field,
    in other words, just to the right of the 'f'.  Then all you need to do is
    to press BACKSPACE and type a 'g'.  The cursor placement in each field is
    stored only for the current record.  If you cancel or update the current
    record and begin working on another, the cursor will again appear in the
    first character position of each field as you jump to that field.

ClipBoard

    The SmartFields system comes with its own built-in clipboard, which is
    not the same as the Amiga clipboard device.  Thus, data saved to the
    SmartFields clipboard cannot be transferred to and from word processing
    and other programs that make use of the Amiga clipboard.  The SmartFields
    clipboard allows you to copy data between the same or different fields in
    the same or different windows of the same program.  The origination and
    destination fields can also be of equal or different lengths.  The
    SmartFields clipboard can store the contents from only one field at a
    time.  Thus, if you make subsequent copies of a field to the clipboard,
    only the most recent copy will be saved.

Cut to Clipboard (CTRL-K)

    Pressing and holding the CTRL key while pressing the 'K' key will delete
    the contents of the current field and copy them to the clipboard.  Any
    data currently in the ClipBoard buffer will be destroyed.  The cursor
    will then be moved to the first character position of the now empty
    current field.  If the current field is empty, the screen will flash,
    indicating that there is nothing in the current field to be copied to the
    clipboard.

Copy to Clipboard (CTRL-O)

    Pressing and holding the CTRL key while pressing the 'O' key will copy
    the contents of the current field to the clipboard.  The cursor will not
    move, and the contents of the current field will not be changed.  If the
    current field is empty, the screen will flash, indicating that there is
    nothing in the current field to be copied to the clipboard.

Paste from Clip (CTRL-P)

    Pressing and holding the CTRL key while pressing the 'P' key will delete
    the contents of the current field and place the contents of the clipboard
    in that field.  If the contents in the clipboard are longer than the
    maximum number of characters allowed in the current field, the clipboard
    contents will be truncated at the right end to fit in the current field.
    The contents of the clipboard buffer will not be changed.  The cursor
    will then move to the first character position in the current field.  If
    the clipboard is empty, then the screen will flash, indicating that there
    is nothing in the clipboard to be copied.


User Manual  01/13/90
© Copyright 1990 Timm Martin
All Rights Reserved Worldwide

/*-- END --*/
